                                                                                             The Gallium Anomaly

                                                                               Steven R. Elliotta,∗, Vladimir Gavrinb , Wick Haxtonc,d
                                                                               a Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, NM 87545, USA
                                                                  b Institute for Nuclear Research of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow 117312, Russia
                                                                         c Department of Physics, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA
                                                                              d Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720, USA




                                          Abstract

                                          In order to test the end-to-end operations of gallium solar neutrino experiments, intense electron-capture sources were
                                          fabricated to measure the responses of the radiochemical SAGE and GALLEX/GNO detectors to known fluxes of low-
arXiv:2306.03299v1 [nucl-ex] 5 Jun 2023




                                          energy neutrinos. Such tests were viewed at the time as a cross-check, given the many tests of 71 Ge recovery and counting
                                          that had been routinely performed, with excellent results. However, the four 51 Cr and 37 Ar source experiments yielded
                                          rates below expectations, a result commonly known as the Ga anomaly. As the intensity of the electron-capture sources
                                          can be measured to high precision, the neutrino lines they produce are fixed by known atomic and nuclear rates, and
                                          the neutrino absorption cross section on 71 Ga is tightly constrained by the lifetime of 71 Ge, no simple explanation for
                                          the anomaly has been found. To check these calibration experiments, a dedicated experiment BEST was performed,
                                          utilizing a neutrino source of unprecedented intensity and a detector optimized to increase statistics while providing some
                                          information on counting rate as a function of distance from the source. The results BEST obtained are consistent with the
                                          earlier solar neutrino calibration experiments, and when combined with those measurements, yield a Ga anomaly with a
                                          significance of approximately 4σ, under conservative assumptions. But BEST found no evidence of distance dependence
                                          and thus no explicit indication of new physics. In this review we describe the extensive campaigns carried out by SAGE,
                                          GALLEX/GNO, and BEST to demonstrate the reliability and precision of their experimental procedures, including 71 Ge
                                          recovery, counting, and analysis. We also describe efforts to define uncertainties in the neutrino capture cross section,
                                          which now include estimates of effects at the ≲ 0.5% level such as radiative corrections and weak magnetism. With the
                                          results from BEST, an anomaly remains even if one retains only the transition to the 71 Ge ground state, whose strength
                                          is fixed by the known lifetime of 71 Ge. We then consider the new-physics solution most commonly suggested to resolve
                                          the Ga anomaly, oscillations into a sterile fourth neutrino, νe → νs . We find such a solution generates substantial tension
                                          with several null experiments, owing to the large mixing angle required. While this does not exclude such solutions –
                                          the sterile sector might include multiple neutrinos as well as new interactions – it shows the need for more experimental
                                          constraints, if we are to make progress in resolving the Ga and other low-energy neutrino anomalies. We conclude by
                                          consider the role future low-energy electron-capture sources could play in this effort.
                                          Keywords: solar neutrinos, electron capture, radiochemistry, oscillations, sterile neutrinos




                                            ∗ Steven R. Elliott

                                              Email address: elliotts@lanl.gov (Steven R. Elliott)


                                          Preprint submitted to Progress in Particle and Nuclear Physics                                                       June 7, 2023
Contents
1 Introduction                                                                                                                    3

2 History                                                                                                                         4
  2.1   Gallium Radiochemical Radioactive Source Measurements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                6
  2.2   SAGE    51
                     Cr and   37
                                   Ar Source Measurements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
  2.3   GALLEX 51 Cr Source Measurements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             9
  2.4   Results from the Early Source Measurements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             9

3 The BEST Experiment                                                                                                             11
  3.1   The 51 Cr Source . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
        3.1.1   Source Fabrication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      13
        3.1.2   Source Activity . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     13
  3.2   BEST Experimental Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          15
        3.2.1   The Extractions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       15
        3.2.2   GeH4 Synthesis . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      15
        3.2.3   The Proportional Counters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         16
        3.2.4   Waveform Analysis and Likelihood Fits . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           16

4 Auxiliary Experimental Tests                                                                                                    18
  4.1   Extraction and Synthesis Efficiency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       18
  4.2   Counter Efficiency . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      19
  4.3   Detector Effective Path Length and Distribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           19

5 The 71 Ga Capture Cross Section                                                                                                 21
  5.1   The Ground State Transition Strength . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          21
  5.2   The Ground State Neutrino Capture Cross Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             22
  5.3   Excited-State Contributions to the Neutrino Capture Cross Section . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             23
  5.4   Comparisons to Past Work . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          25
  5.5   Nuclear and Atomic Data Uncertainties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           26

6 The Ga Anomaly and its Possible Implications for Sterile Neutrinos                                                              28

7 Summary and Outlook                                                                                                             31
1. Introduction
The gallium anomaly can be stated: The measurements of the charged-current capture rate of neutrinos on 71 Ga from
strong radioactive sources have yielded results below those expected, based on the known strength of the principal transition
supplemented by theory. The mystery of this anomaly, which has persisted for over two decades, deepened with recent,
high-precision results from the Baksan Experiment on Sterile Transitions (BEST) [1, 2].
      The data that initially gave rise to the anomaly were obtained from calibration tests of two radiochemical detectors,
SAGE and GALLEX, that were designed to probe low-energy components of the solar neutrino flux. It was anticipated
that the calibration tests would be unusually free of uncertainties. First, the neutrino sources employed are well under-
stood, as their intensities can be measured in multiple ways, to sub-1% precision, and as the spectra they produce are
lines with precisely known energies and branching ratios. Second, the cross section for neutrino absorption on 71 Ga is
tightly constrained by the known electron-capture lifetime of 71 Ge, which establishes a lower bound on the cross section,
leaving only a ∼6% correction due to transitions to excited states in 71 Ge to be determined through a combination of
experiment and theory: the cross section has been recently re-examined in an analysis that carefully propagates all known
sources of uncertainty [3]. Third, the efficiency of the extraction of Ge from the Ga targets is independently verified by
tracer experiments, in every experimental run. While questions have been raised about detector operations including the
71
     Ge extraction efficiencies, no plausible experimental explanation for the anomaly has been identified. Consequently,
the discrepancies found in the calibration experiments are concerning, and indeed have been taken as evidence for sterile
neutrinos (νs ).
      The gallium anomaly found in the four original calibration experiments represents about a 2.5σ deviation from
expectations. With the completion of BEST, the deviation has risen to 6σ. This level of significance might not normally
warrant suggestions of new physics. It has happened in this case because the gallium anomaly is one of several that have
arisen in low-energy neutrino experiments. A broad overview of sterile neutrinos and anomalies motivating them can
be found in various community white papers [4, 5, 6]. Yet, despite this supporting evidence as well as the theoretical
enthusiasm for additional neutrino species, no compelling overall sterile-neutrino explanation for the collection of anomalies
has emerged: there is some tension among the sterile neutrino parameters required to account for each anomaly. Indeed,
the freedom one has in introducing sterile neutrinos – the specific mechanism, their number, and their masses and mixings
– is considerable, making it difficult to either rule out or confirm such an explanation. Further, additional neutrino species
can be accompanied by other new neutrino physics. The 6 × 6 mixing matrix that arises for three neutrino flavors with
both Dirac and Majorna mass terms contains various mixing angles and phases [7] associated with possible CP [8] or
CPT violation [9]. Other new physics could include non-standard neutrino interactions [10], neutrino decay [11], Lorentz
violation [12], extra dimensions [13], energy dependent mixing parameters [14], dark photons [15], neutrinos coupled to
fuzzy dark matter or dark energy [16], and bulk neutrinos [17]. So despite the expectation that new neutrino species may
exist, the flexibility of the theory has made it difficult to access the plausibility of sterile neutrinos as the explanation for
the various anomalies. For the same reason, it is difficult to design an experiment to either verify or falsify a hypothesized
sterile neutrino. Specifically, BEST was not designed for this purpose. Instead, it was envisioned as a high-sensitivity
test of the gallium anomaly. While it increased the significance of the anomaly, it failed to provide more specific evidence
of oscillations through a tell-tale variation of signal with distance.
      In this review, we describe the status of the gallium anomaly, with special emphasis on the most recent results from
BEST, which utilized a 51 Cr neutrino source of unprecedented strength. The resulting increase in the significance of the


                                                               3
gallium anomaly is notable, though the results of BEST and the four earlier calibrations could still be attributed to an
unlikely statistical fluctuation. We discuss the various cross-checks on the experimental methods that have been made
over the three decades of gallium detector operations. We conclude by discussing possible steps that could be taken in
the future, to resolve this perplexing situation.



2. History
In 1968 the first results from the Homestake chlorine solar neutrino experiment [18] were announced. Ray Davis’s
radiochemical detector made use of the reaction 37 Cl(νe , e− )37 Ar to observe 8 B and 7 Be solar neutrinos. This technique
was first suggested by Pontecorvo [19], then explored in more detail by Alvarez [20], who was interested in doing a
reactor experiment to test whether neutrinos were Majorana particles. The Davis detector consisted of 615 tons of
perchloroethylene (C2 Cl4 ), placed inside a steel containment vessel that had been constructed on the 4850-ft level of
the Homestake gold mine. As a noble gas that does not interact chemically, argon can be extracted with high efficiency
(∼95%) from large volumes of organic liquid. The ∼35-d half-life of 37 Ar is nearly ideal, allowing tank concentrations
to build up over a saturation time of about two months, yet permitting 37 Ar counting via electron capture (EC). On
two-month intervals, approximately ten 37 Ar atoms produced by solar neutrino reactions would be extracted from the
volume and counted in small proportional counters, which recorded the emitted x rays and Auger electrons produced
after 37 Ar EC, as the K-shell vacancy is filled. Measurements continued until 2002, when the Homestake mine was closed.
The end result was a neutrino capture rate of 2.56±0.16±0.16 SNU1 , about one-third that predicted by the standard
solar model (SSM) [21, 22, 23, 24, 25].
   Approximately 75% of the events in the chlorine detector came from the capture of more energetic 8 B neutrinos. In the
SSM the flux of these neutrinos varies as ϕ(8 B)∼ T22
                                                   c , where Tc is the solar core temperature. This prompted many early

solutions of the so-called “solar neutrino problem" in which the SSM was modified in ways that would reduce the core
temperature by ∼ 5%, thereby eliminating the discrepancy between observation and theory. Others proposed solutions
invoked new weak-interaction physics, including neutrino oscillations and neutrino decay, or questioned whether there
might be a hidden flaw in the experiment, as the radiochemical method is indirect. An account of the many inventive
solutions can be found in the entertaining review of Ref. [26].
   The chlorine detector was ahead of its time: two decades passed before others could build detectors to cross check
the Homestake result. In the early 1980s the proton decay experiment Kamiokande I was re-instrumented to detect lower
energy events, which enabled Kamiokande II/III to measure the high-energy portion of the 8 B solar neutrino flux via
the reaction ν + e → ν ′ + e′ . The Cerenkov light produced by the recoiling electron was observed in the three-kiloton
water detector. Kamiokande II operated with a 9 MeV threshold for the electron energy, which was lowered to 7 MeV
in Kamiokande III [27]. The first results from Kamiokande II were announced in 1989. The neutrino event rate was
approximately 50% that expected, based on the SSM 8 B flux prediction. The fact that Kamiokande measured neutrinos
event-by-event, provided some information on the shape of the neutrino spectrum, and largely confirmed the results of
the Homestake experiment had significant impact.
   Kuzmin [28] had proposed using 71 Ga as the target for a radiochemical solar neutrino experiment due to the 234 keV
threshold of the reaction 71 Ga(νe ,e− )71 Ge (see Fig. 2.1) and 11.43 d half-life of 71 Ge. The low threshold provides sensitivity


  1 1 SNU (solar neutrino unit) = 1 × 10−36 /(target atom - s).




                                                                  4
to the low-energy pp neutrinos – those generated in the first step of the pp chain via proton-proton (pp) fusion – which
are produced in a β-decay spectrum with an endpoint of 420 keV. The SSM flux of pp neutrinos is about four orders of
magnitude higher than that of the 8 B neutrinos. Further, in contrast to the temperature-dependent 8 B neutrinos, the
flux of the pp neutrinos is constrained by the Sun’s luminosity, assuming only a steady-state Sun and standard-model
weak interaction physics. With these assumptions, a minimum counting rate of 79 SNU was predicted for this detector.
Consequently, a rate lower than this bound would point to new neutrino physics, an exciting result.
   In the 1970s work began on two possible approaches to the chemistry of this detector, one employing gallium as a GaCl3
solution and the other as a metal. In the former, after an exposure of about three weeks, the produced germanium was
recovered as GeCl4 by bubbling nitrogen through the solution, then scrubbing the gas. The Ge was further concentrated
and purified, converted into GeH4 , then counted in miniaturized gas proportional counters similar to those used in the
chlorine experiment. This procedure was employed in the GALLEX/GNO experiment.
   The SAGE experiment exploited the fact that gallium metal is a liquid at slightly above room temperature. The
produced 71 Ge is separated from the metal by mixing into the gallium a solution of hydrogen peroxide and dilute
hydrochloric acid, which produces an emulsion, with the germanium migrating to the surface of the emulsion droplets
where it is oxidized and dissolved by hydrochloric acid. The Ge is extracted as GeCl4 , purified and concentrated,
synthesized into GeH4 , then counted as in the GALLEX experiment. In both GALLEX and SAGE, the overall efficiency
of the chemical procedures can be determined by introducing Ge carrier.
   The SAGE and GALLEX/GNO experiments (Fig. 2.2) began in the late 1980’s with operations stretching into the
new century. The deduced counting rates (about 70 SNU [29, 30]) were again low compared to the SSM prediction
(137 SNU [25]). They were also just below the minimum astronomical value, suggesting that the solar neutrino prob-
lem extended beyond 8 B neutrinos, affecting also the lower energy portion of the solar neutrino flux. Perhaps most
important, the combination of the Cl, Kamiokande, and SAGE/GALLEX results indicated a pattern of solar neutrino
fluxes incompatible with any choice of the solar core temperature Tc . Consequently, a new solution involving new parti-
cle physics became plausible, giving impetus to three new experiments, Borexino, Super-Kamiokande, and the Sudbury
Neutrino Observatory, that were to vastly improve our knowledge of both the Sun and the basic physics of neutrinos.
Super-Kamiokande [31] measurements of both atmospheric and solar neutrinos and SNO [32] measurements separating
electron from heavy-flavor solar neutrinos showed that neutrinos are massive and undergo flavor oscillations. Borexino’s
patient campaign to map out the entire spectrum of solar neutrinos revealed the transition between vacuum-dominated
and matter-dominated solar neutrino oscillations, thereby providing the first information on the ordering of the three
light neutrino mass eigenstates. There are several excellent reviews summarizing the history of the solar neutrino problem
and its resolution (see [33, 34, 35]).
   This review focuses on follow-up calibration measurements done by the SAGE and GALLEX/GNO experiments that
generated new questions, still not resolved. The critical role of gallium experiments in underscoring the seriousness of
the solar neutrino problem, combined with the recognition that the chemistry of these detectors was more complicated
than that of the chlorine detector, led to proposals to make end-to-end cross checks of operations, by exposing the
detectors to well-calibrated artificial neutrino sources. In the mid 1990’s and early 2000’s, four high-activity, artificial-
source experiments were conducted, three with 51 Cr and one with 37 Ar. These electron-capture line sources produce low
energy neutrinos, similar to the 7 Be solar neutrino line source. As the source intensities were typically on the order of one
MCi, the counting rates the sources induced in the detectors were high, by solar neutrino counting-rate standards. The



                                                              5
                                                                 0.8
                                                                            Ar-37
                                    3/2-
                                                                                            Cr-51
                                                                 0.6




                                                  Energy (MeV)
                                    5/2-                                  Cr-51
                                                                 0.4

                                                                                                           pp
                                    1/2-
                                    71Ge                         0.2


                        3/2-
                                                                 0.0
                        71Ga
                                                                    0.0     0.2       0.4     0.6   0.8   1.0 1.2 x109
                                                                                      Flux (arb. units)

Figure 2.1: The 71 Ga-71 Ge level diagram compared to the neutrino spectra from the pp fusion (red curve), 51 Cr (lower blue bars), and 37 Ar
(top black bar). The shaded region denotes the portion of the pp spectrum below threshold for neutrino capture on 71 Ga.


intensities of the sources were calibrated by several means, and very well established. Yet in combination they showed a
rate 13% below that expected, albeit with a ±5% uncertainty.
    By the time Super-Kamiokande and SNO had produced their results, other nagging neutrino-physics discrepancies
had been pointed out. One of the earliest and perhaps most widely discussed came from the LSND experiment [36],
which searched for ν̄µ → ν̄e using ν̄µ s from the decay of muons at rest and νµ → νe using νµ s from π + s decaying in flight,
observing events in a liquid scintillator detector. Difficulties the collaboration encountered in understand the spectrum of
events led them to suggest oscillations into sterile neutrino states [37]. These and other similar claims, reviewed in [4, 5, 6],
provided additional motivation for BEST – a fifth gallium calibration experiment employing a source of unprecedented
intensity, performed with the existing SAGE detector, though redesigned (see Fig. 2.2) to have some sensitivity to
oscillation baselines. The results from that experiment, as well as those from the four earlier gallium neutrino source
experiments, form the focus of this report.


2.1. Gallium Radiochemical Radioactive Source Measurements

Exposing the gallium to a known source of νe s and then carrying out the routine procedures of 71 Ge extraction and count-
ing provides an end-to-end cross-check of all experimental procedures, including the 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge cross section. The
efficiencies of various extraction and counting steps during solar neutrino operations were already calibrated through aux-
iliary measurements, providing a systematic verification of experimental performance of both GALLEX and SAGE. Thus
one would not have expected a different result in a neutrino calibration experiment. Indeed, because carrier experiments
verify that the extraction of Ge is highly efficient, it had been argued that a high-statistics neutrino source experiment
could be viewed as a measurement of the neutrino absorption cross section [38, 39]. Though tightly constrained by exper-
iment, the cross section does have some residual dependence on theory due to transitions to two excited states in 71 Ge.
Yet we will see that the BEST/gallium anomalies cannot be attributed solely, or even primarily, to this theory uncertainty.


    The electron-capture lines produced by 37 Ar and 51 Cr sources are given in Table 2.1, taking into account K, L, and



                                                                                  6
                                                 7 t of Ga




Figure 2.2: Left: Sketch of one of the SAGE reactors used for solar neutrino measurements. Right: Sketch of the GALLEX neutrino source
experimental layout. (Figure from https://www.mpi-hd.mpg.de/lin/images/tank.gif)




       Table 2.1: Line neutrinos from the source isotopes, taking into account the probabilities for K, L, and M capture [40, 41, 42].


                                            Isotope          τ1/2 (d)   Eν (keV)     fEν (%)

                                                                            813.8    1.11±0.01
                                            37
                                                 Ar           35.0          813.5    8.66±0.01
                                                                            810.7   90.23±0.01
                                                                            752.4    1.40±0.01
                                                                            751.8    8.42±0.01
                                                                            746.5   80.25±0.01
                                            51
                                                 Cr           27.7
                                                                            432.3    0.15±0.01
                                                                            431.7    0.92±0.01
                                                                            426.4    8.86±0.01




                                                                        7
M capture and, in the case of 51 Cr, the ∼10% probability of capture to the first excited state of 51 V. The 51 Cr and 37 Ar
sources can be produced by irradiating isotopically enriched 50 Cr (as the natural abundance of this isotope is just 4.3%)
or natural Ca or CaO targets in a high-flux reactor, making use of the (n, γ) and (n, α) reactions, respectively.
   As 71 Ge has an 11.43-d half-life [43], the exposures for 71 Ga(νe , e− ) were typically 5-10 days (5 d for GALLEX, and
10 d for BEST). The produced Ge was then extracted, along with Ge carrier, and a counter gas synthesized. This gas
was inserted into a small proportional counter and counted for a few months. The important nuclear and atomic physics
data for 71 Ge decay are given in Table 2.2. The source experiments are described in the following subsections.



                                    Table 2.2: Key features of the EC decay of 71 Ge [44, 45].


                          Shell Capture       fc      Emissions

                                                      41.5% 10.367-keV Auger e−
                          K                 88%       41.2% 1.2-keV Auger e− & 9.2-keV x ray
                                                      5.3% 0.12-keV Auger e− & 10.26-keV x ray
                          L                10.3%      1.2-keV Auger e−
                          M                 1.7%      0.12-keV Auger e−




2.2. SAGE 51 Cr and 37 Ar Source Measurements

The SAGE source experiments followed the same procedures used in SAGE solar neutrino measurements, with one
important difference. During solar neutrino operations each reactor contained a stirring mechanism, installed to evenly
disperse throughout the Ga target the small quantity of natural Ge carrier that was added. This mechanism took up
a great deal of space and would have interfered with source installation. Hence a reactor without that mechanism was
employed for the source exposures. This special reactor held 13 t of Ga compared to the 7 t it would have held had
the stirring mechanism remained in place. However, lacking a stirring mechanism, this reactor could not be used for the
extraction chemistry. Instead, after exposure, the Ga was pumped to other reactors for this step. After Ge extraction,
the procedures followed those used for decades in solar neutrino running. The results of the 51 Cr and 37 Ar source
measurements are given in Table 3.1 and depicted in Fig. 2.3.
   The GALLEX, SAGE, and BEST experiments followed very similar procedures in fabricating intense 51 Cr sources, as
summarized in Sec. 3.1. In addition, SAGE performed one calibration with an 37 Ar source, which produces a neutrino
line very similar in energy to the solar 7 Be line. That source was produced by irradiating CaO (12.36 kg Ca) in the fast
neutron breeder reactor BN-600 at Zarechny, Russia. The CaO was dissolved in a nitric acid solution and the 37 Ar was
extracted by a He purge [46]. The source activity of the Ar was estimated by six distinct procedures. First, the volume
and isotopic composition of produced gas was measured. Second, the mass of Ar introduced into the source container was
measured. Third and fourth, the heat output of the source was measured by calorimetry at Zarechny before shipping to
Baksan and after arrival using the same apparatus as for the SAGE Cr measurements, noting that the energy released
by 37 Ar is 2.751 ± 0.021 keV/decay[46]. Fifth, after exposures of the Ga were completed, the source was returned to
Zarechny and the remaining 37 Ar activity of samples was measured. Lastly, these final samples were analyzed for isotope
dilution. The final value for the activity (409±2 kCi), determined from the weighted average, has an uncertainty of 0.5%.


                                                                8
                                           1.2
                                           1.1
                                           1.0



                             r meas. /r pred.
                                           0.9
                                           0.8
                                           0.7
                                           0.6   r


                                                          r


                                                                   r1


                                                                               r2


                                                                                          er


                                                                                                      ter
                                                 -C


                                                       -A




                                                                                           n
                                                                -C


                                                                            -C




                                                                                                      u
                                                                                       -In
                                           GE


                                                      GE




                                                                                                   -O
                                                              EX


                                                                          EX

                                                                                    ST


                                                                                                ST
                                         SA


                                                      SA


                                                              LL


                                                                        LL

                                                                                  BE


                                                                                              BE
                                                           GA


                                                                    GA
Figure 2.3: The ratio of the measured 71 Ge production rate to the predicted rate for all 6 measurements. The dotted blue line (shading) is
the best fit (uncertainty) to all 6 results.


2.3. GALLEX 51 Cr Source Measurements

The GALLEX tank was filled with 101 tons GaCl3 , acidified to 2 M in HCL. The target contained 30.3 t of natural Ga
(12 t 71 Ga). Ge forms the volatile molecule GeCl4 which can be extracted from the non-volatile GaCl3 by bubbling an
inert gas through the solution [47]. The GALLEX synthesis of GeH4 follows procedures similar to those employed by
SAGE and BEST, described in Sec. 3. The counting and analysis procedures used by GALLEX and SAGE are also very
similar. The GALLEX experimental setup is depicted in Fig. 2.2.
    The GALLEX source had a 50-cm diameter, whereas the SAGE source had a diameter of only 8 cm. Furthermore
the GaCl3 solution in GALLEX has a lower 71 Ga atomic density than the metallic Ga used by SAGE. Consequently,
though the GALLEX sources were a factor three stronger than those used in SAGE, the Ge production rates and hence
the precision of the calibrations were similar in the two experiments.
    The GALLEX solar neutrino results were reanalyzed [48] after all solar neutrino runs were completed in 2003. The
counter efficiencies could then be measured with high statistics using internal radioactive sources that would have com-
promised their performance for low-background measurements. In addition, advanced pulse shape analysis [50] was
implemented to better distinguish signal from background. The results of the two 51 Cr measurements are given in
Table 3.1 and shown in Fig. 2.3.


2.4. Results from the Early Source Measurements

A summary of the GALLEX, SAGE and BEST results are given in Table 3.1. It should be noted that GALLEX updated
their analysis and efficiencies [30, 48]. The SAGE reference [46] quoted different values for the measured-to-predicted
ratios than those that were eventually established based on private communications regarding the upcoming efficiency
updates. The differences are modest compared to the ∼10% uncertainties (1.01 instead of 1.00, and 0.84 instead of 0.81).
    The typical precision achieved in each GALLEX and SAGE source experiment was ≳ 10%. When combined, the four



                                                                    9
experiments yield a ratio of observed to expected counts of R=0.87±0.05 [29], a deviation of ∼ 2.5σ from 1. Although not
statistically convincing, the discrepancy generated a great deal of speculation as to possible causes, and became known
as the “Ga anomaly." In particular, the discrepancy has been often cited as tentative evidence for sterile neutrinos and
νe → νs oscillations [4, 5, 6].
      If one assumes a two-component oscillation into a sterile state, the survival probability for a neutrino of energy Eν
detected a distance L from its source is
                                                                                                                        
                                                                          πL                        π             ∆m2 /eV2
                          Pee (Eν , L) = 1 − sin 2θ sin  2        2
                                                                                        with              = 1.27                         (2.1)
                                                                          Losc                  [Losc /m]         [Eν /MeV]

where ∆m2 = m22 − m21 , mi is the mass of the ith mass eigenstate, and θ is the mixing angfe.
      To determine the impact of oscillations on the detection rate in the Ga calibration and BEST experiments, one must
take into account the complex geometry of the detector and the source. Denoting the target and source volumes by Vd
and Vs , respectively, the neutrino capture rate r is
                               6
                               X          Z                   Z
                                                                                             1
                          r=         fi        d⃗xd n(⃗xd )           d⃗xs a(⃗xs )                    σ(Eνi ) Pee (Eνi , |⃗xd − ⃗xs |)   (2.2)
                               i=1        Vd                    Vs                      |⃗xd − ⃗xs |2

where i indexes the neutrino lines produced in 51 Cr EC (the six lines listed in Table 2.1), fi is the fraction of the neutrinos
emitted in line i, Eνi is the line energy, σ(Eνi ) is the 71 Ga neutrino absorption cross section at that energy, n is the target
71
     Ga number density, a is the source activity density, and Pee (Eνi , D) is the oscillation survival probability for that line
at a distance D ≡ |⃗xd − ⃗xs | from the source. Under the assumption that the target number and source activity densities
are uniform, this can be rewritten as
                                                   6
                                                   X                           Z
                                                                                          1
                                              r=         fi σ(Eνi ) N A              dD      Pee (Eνi , D) P (D)                         (2.3)
                                                   i=1
                                                                                          D2

where N is the number of 71 Ga nuclei in the target, A is the total source activity, and
                                Z             Z                                    Z
                              1            1
                    P (D) ≡          d⃗xd        d⃗xs δ(D − |⃗xd − ⃗xs |) with        dD P (D) = 1.                                      (2.4)
                             V d Vd        Vs Vs

      Together, Eqs (2.3) and (2.4) factor the cross section and oscillation physics from the target and source geometry,
encoding the latter in a probability distribution P (D) describing the likelihood that a given neutrino interacting in the
target did so after traveling a distance D from the point where it was produced. This quantity is computed by Monte
Carlo integration due to the complexity of target and detector geometry, after which it can be used in detailed oscillation
studies.
      One can also define an effective path length in the detector
                                          Z            Z                          Z
                                        1           1               1           1            1
                                ⟨L⟩ ≡         d⃗xd        d⃗xs               →       d⃗xd                                                (2.5)
                                       4π Vd       Vs Vs       |⃗xd − ⃗xs |2   4π Vd      |⃗xd |2

where on the right we have taken the limit where the source radius is much smaller than the distance to the detecting
region, so that the source can be approximated as a point. One can see that ⟨L⟩ is basically the average thickness of
the detection region: in a detector like BEST with inner and outer regions, if each has approximately the same ⟨L⟩, the
detection rate in each volume with be approximately equal, in the absence of oscillations. The sensitivity to oscillation
lengths is also governed by ⟨L⟩. If Losc >> ⟨L⟩, the detector event rate will not be affected by oscillations; if Losc << ⟨L⟩
the detection rate will be reduced by the factor 1 − sin 2θ , but the rapidity of the oscillations will make it impossible to
                                                        2

                                                                           2




                                                                                   10
see variations as a function of distance. However, if L ∼ Losc and a detector records the positions of events, variations
can be seen.
                                                                            R
   We relate ⟨L⟩ to a weighted distribution involving P (D) by inserting 1 = dD δ(D − |⃗xd − ⃗xs |) in Eq. (2.5), yielding
                                                  Z                 Z
                                               Vd        1
                                        ⟨L⟩ =        dD 2 P (D) ≡ dD L(D)                                            (2.6)
                                               4π        D

In a Monte Carlo evaluation of Eq. (2.5), if events are binned according the distance D between the neutrino production
point in the source and absorption point in the target, one has in the resulting dimensionless distribution L(D) the
information needed to simulate oscillations for any choice of oscillation parameters. L(D) has the normalization
                                                  Z
                                                                      Vd
                                                     dD D2 L(D) =                                                       (2.7)
                                                                      4π

One can then re-express the rate in Eq. (2.3) in terms of L(D),
                                          6
                                          X                         Z
                                     r=         fi σ(Eνi ) 4π n A       dD Pee (Eνi , D) L(D)                           (2.8)
                                          i=1

making it clear that L(D) is the weight one must fold with the oscillation probability to get the rate r.
   If one interprets the ∼ 2.5σ discrepancy that emerged from the four SAGE and GALLEX calibration experiments as
evidence for a sterile neutrino, the best fit to oscillation parameters yields [6] ∆m2 ∼ 2.15 (2.24) eV2 and sin2 2θ ∼ 0.24
(0.5), taking the neutrino absorption cross section from Ref. [49] (Ref. [39]). However, the allowed region is very large and
the minimum in χ2 quite flat. When this flatness is taken into account, it was found [6] that sin2 θ ≳ 0.07 and ∆m2 ≳ 0.35
eV2 at 95% C.L., using the cross section of [39]. There is modest tension between these oscillation parameters and those
found from some other experimental anomalies. For example, LSND analyses allowed large ∆m2 consistent with the
Ga results, but only if correlated with smaller sin2 2θ. As noted in [6], however, one could nicely account for both the
gallium and reactor neutrino anomalies by postulating an oscillation into a sterile fourth neutrino. These inconclusive
comparisons with other experiments provided additional motivation for a higher statistics neutrino source experiment,
stimulating work on BEST.



3. The BEST Experiment
BEST goals included a higher intensity source, to improve counting statistics, and the introduction of two nested target
volumes, so that if oscillations were occurring, variations in the flux with distance might be identified. Figure 3.1 shows
the experimental layout. Figure 3.2 shows the nested target volume during construction and Fig. 3.3 shows photos of
the BEST lab at the Baksan Neutrino Observatory. The BEST source, approximately six times stronger than the SAGE
sources, is described in Sec. 3.1.
   The procedure began with adding Ge carrier to each of the two zones and then installing the source into the center of
the two-zone target volume, for an exposure of about 10 d. The source would then be moved to the calorimeter to measure
its activity, while the Ga was pumped to the chemical reactors to perform the 71 Ge extraction. The extraction of the Ge
(carrier and 71 Ge) was conducted over about a day. The GeH4 gas was synthesized, mixed with Xe, and inserted into
proportional counters. The gas was then counted for 60-150 d. The following subsections discuss these key experimental
activities in further detail.




                                                                11
   Figure 3.1: A Cartoon of the BEST experiment configuration.




Figure 3.2: A photograph of the two-target volume during assembly.




                               12
                                                                                                                eter
                                                                                                         Calorim
                                                                                                                       Lead
                                                                                                                       chamber
                                                                                               Source
                                                        2-zone gallium target




Figure 3.3: Left: A photograph of the Baksan Neutrino Observatory showing the BEST two-zone target in the foreground and the mixing
reactors, with their red cap motor drives in the background. Right: A photograph of the two-zone target, the source, the calorimeter and the
lead shield for γ spectrum measurements.


3.1. The 51 Cr Source

3.1.1. Source Fabrication

Chromium has four isotopes.         50
                                         Cr has a low natural abundance (4.35%) and 53 Cr has a high neutron capture cross
section. As a result, one must enrich the Cr in isotope 50, deplete in 53, to reach the desired activities [51]. The Cr
isotope enrichment for GALLEX and SAGE was done at the Kurchatov Institute by gas centrifugation of CrO2 F2 [52, 53].
The CrO2 F2 was then hydrolyzed to Cr2 O3 followed by reduction to metallic Cr. Impurities in Cr would activate while
in the reactor, creating a potential health hazard and impacting the source strength measurement. Therefore, great care
was taken to ensure no contamination occurred during processing. To verify this, the samples were chemically analyzed
by mass spectroscopy prior to irradiation.
   SAGE extruded the Cr metal into rods, which were irradiated at the BN-350 fast breeder nuclear reactor in Aktau,
Kazakhstan to produce a 516.6 kCi source [54]. GALLEX irradiated its Cr at Siloè at Grenoble as chips within a zircalloy
tube [55]. Both of these reactor facilities produce intense thermal neutron fluxes and allow for the loading of large samples
for irradiation.
   BEST used 4 kg of 97%-enriched 50 Cr formed into 26 metal disks, which were irradiated for ∼100 d in the SM-3
reactor at the State Scientific Center Research Institute of Atomic Reactors, Dimitrovgrad, Russia. After irradiation the
3.1414 ± 0.008 MCi source was delivered to Baksan on 5 July 2019, with exposures beginning at 14:02 that same day.
This was taken as the source strength reference time. The source is shown in Fig. 3.4.


3.1.2. Source Activity

All three experiments used calorimetry as their primary, and most precise, tool to estimate the activity of the sources.
All three also used a variety of additional methods to cross-check the activity determination.
   The activity of the SAGE 51 Cr source was measured three ways [54]. A calorimeter was built to measure the heating
power of the source [56]; the 320 keV γ-rays produced following EC to the first excited state in 51 V (∼10% branch) were


                                                                    13
Figure 3.4: A photograph of the BEST source as it is being removed from its transport container. To the right side of the photo, the calorimeter
can be seen.




Table 3.1: Summary of the source activities and measured-to-predicted ratios for each of the six experiments. The experiments used different
units to quote activities, therefore we give both here.


                       Measurement           Activity (1015 Bq)         Activity (MCi)          Measured/Expected

                       SAGE Cr                   19.11 ± 0.22        0.5166 ± 0.0060 [54]       0.95 ± 0.12 [54, 46]
                       SAGE Ar                     15.1 ± 0.7          0.409 ± 0.002 [46]       0.79+0.09
                                                                                                    −0.10 [46]
                                                     +1.1
                       GALLEX Cr-1               63.4−1.6 [57]             1.714+0.03
                                                                                −0.043          0.953±0.11 [48]
                                                     +3.3
                       GALLEX Cr-2               69.1−2.1 [57]             1.868+0.09
                                                                                −0.057          0.812+0.10
                                                                                                     −0.11 [48]

                       BEST-inner               116.23 ± 0.03          3.1414 ± 0.008 [1]       0.79 ± 0.05 [1]
                       BEST-outer               116.23 ± 0.03          3.1414 ± 0.008 [1]       0.77 ± 0.05 [1]




                                                                      14
counted; and the activity was estimated from reactor physics.
   GALLEX [57] also made several measurements of source activity. Samples were collected of the irradiated Cr chips
and the 320-keV γ was counted. This was done independently by three groups (Saclay, Karlsruhe and BNL) along
with inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectroscopy. The activity of the total source was also measured by
calorimetry, and finally by measuring the 51 V content of the source (Karlsruhe and BNL) after all irradiations were
complete (at which time most of the 51 Cr had decayed).
   The BEST calorimetry results [58, 59] were complimented by measurements of the γ radiation from the source between
exposures. Figures 3.3 and 3.4 show photos of calorimeter. The precision of the calorimetry, a technique with a long and
successful history, combined with multiple supporting measurements, as described above, gives one confidence the the
source intensities were very well determined.


3.2. BEST Experimental Operations

BEST performed 10 extractions from each of the two volumes for a total of 20 measurements of the νe flux.


3.2.1. The Extractions

The procedure for Ge extraction from metal Ga is described in detail in Ref. [60], with improvements employed in solar
neutrino and source measurements after 1998 described in Ref. [46]. The extraction efficiency is measured by introducing
a Ge carrier isotope to the Ga target at the beginning of each neutrino exposure. In the procedure followed since 2005,
2.4 µmol of Ge enriched in either 72 Ge (92%) or 76 Ge (95%) is added. The contents of the reactor are then stirred to
thoroughly disperse the carrier throughout the target. At the end of the exposure, an extraction solution consisting of
HCL and 30% H2 O2 is added and the Ga is intensively stirred. This causes the Ga to form into fine droplets which are
covered with a Ga oxide film. This film prevents fusion of the droplet and holds the Ga as a fine emulsion. The dissolved
Ge in the Ga migrates to the surface of the droplets, oxidizes, and is incorporated into the oxide film. Once the H2 O2 is
consumed, the emulsion breaks down. To dissolve the oxide containing the Ge, a quantity of 7 M HCl is added and the
Ga briefly stirred. This solution is decanted and concentrated by evaporation to a volume for sweeping. The Ge is swept
from this volume as GeCl4 , which is volatile and thus can be swept out with a flow of air. The Ge is extracted into CCl4
and then back extracted into low-tritium water. The process is repeated three times to concentrate the Ge into a small
volume of water. A much more detailed discussion of these chemical procedures can be found in Ref. [60].
   Based on tracer recovery, the overall Ge extraction efficiency for the BEST runs was 98%.


3.2.2. GeH4 Synthesis

GALLEX, SAGE, and BEST followed similar procedures for synthesizing the GeH4 gas [47, 60]. The Ge-loaded water
from the extraction has a final volume of about 100 ml. NaOH is added to adjust the pH and the solution is placed in a
reduction flask. Low-tritium NaBH4 dissolved in low-tritium water is added and the mixture is heated to 70 C. At this
temperature the Ge is reduced by the NaBH4 , making GeH4 . The produced H2 and flowing He sweep the GeH4 into a
chromatography unit where it is captured in a cold trap. After the reaction completes, the column temperature is raised
and the GeH4 is eluted with the He and frozen on another trap. It is then released, mixed with Xe and added into a
miniture proportional counter.
   The overall synthesis efficiency for the BEST runs was 96%.


                                                           15
                                    Figure 3.5: A photograph of a BEST proportional counter.


3.2.3. The Proportional Counters

The small (∼0.5 cm3 ) proportional counters used by BEST were identical to those SAGE employed after 2001 and also
similar to those of GALLEX. The counters had a thin layer of a carbon deposited on the inner surface of a quartz body
using thermal decomposition of isobutane. This layer serves as the cathode and minimized dead volume. The special
design, with the walls rounded inwards near the cathode ends, minimizes edge effects. Connections to the cathode and
anode were made of molybdenum band, which provided a good gas seal and guaranteed stability of amplification. This
design had lower background and higher volume efficiency than the earlier SAGE design, while maintaining stable high
gas amplification and good energy resolution. The counters were manufactured from radiopure materials. The counter
bodies were fabricated of synthetic quartz (Suprasil® [61]. The thickness of this body wall was etched with hydrofluoric
acid to about 200 µm. This kept the background from the Suprasil®very low.
   Earlier SAGE counters used a zone-refined iron sleeve as the cathode. These were low background, but had a dead
volume behind the sleeve. The GALLEX counters were similar to the early SAGE counters with an iron or silicon cathode
sleeve and tungsten anode wire with a body made of Suprasil® [47].


3.2.4. Waveform Analysis and Likelihood Fits

A great deal of information is encoded in the rise times of the digitized waveforms from the proportional counters. The
Auger electrons arising from the decay of 71 Ge deposit all their energy in a small volume. As the charge from this
point-like energy deposition arrives at the central counter wire, it produces a pulse with fast rise time, as shown in the top
panel of Fig. 3.6. In contrast, background events from β particles or Compton electrons may deposit a similar amount of
energy, but produce an extended track, so that the ionization arrives at the central wire over an interval. This generates a
pulse with a slower rise time, as shown in the bottom panel of Fig. 3.6. This difference has been exploited to improve the
signal-to-background ratio [50, 62]. The power of rise-time techniques to distinguish signal from background is apparent
from Fig. 3.7. The two panels show data taken early during counting when 71 Ge has not fully decayed away and hence
shows its signature, and late in the counting after the 71 Ge has decayed and only background remains.
   Events selected by energy and rise time are used in a likelihood fit [63]. Here the time of each event is used to determine
its probability of being a signal event or background. The number of signal events that maximizes the likelihood is used
to determine the production rate. To determine the quality of fit, Cramer-von Mises and Anderson-Darling statistical
tests were used [64].
   The final BEST results are displayed in Fig. 2.3 along with those obtained in the four earlier solar neutrino calibration
experiments. The significantly improved precision of the BEST measurements is clear. The measured-to-expected ratios
found for the BEST inner and outer vessels are Rin = 0.79 ± 0.05 and Rout = 0.77 ± 0.05, respectively. These values differ
significantly from unity, but agree with each other within uncertainties, revealing no tell-tale sign of oscillations. The


                                                              16
                                    Voltage (arb. units)
                                                             0
                                                                                                            Sig
                                                           100

                                                                 125   150   175   200    225   250   275         300
                                                                                   Time (ns)



                                    Voltage (arb. units)
                                                             0
                                                                                                        Bkg
                                                           100

                                                                 125   150   175   200    225   250   275         300
                                                                                   Time (ns)

                             Figure 3.6: Top: A candidate signal pulse. Bottom: A candidate background pulse.




Figure 3.7: The candidate events from the BEST experiment separated into time bins after start of counting [2]. Top: Energy vs rise-time
histogram of all events of the outer target after the shield-open cut observed in all ten exposures during the first 30 days after extraction. The
live time is 249 days, and 1387 events are shown. Bottom: The same histogram for the 504 events that occurred during an equal live-time
interval beginning at 40 days after extraction.




                                                                                   17
results for all six measurements are given in Table 3.1. The auxiliary tests that have been performed to check whether an
experimental artifact is the cause of the observed deficits are discussed in Sec. 4. Cross section uncertainties are discussed
in Sec. 5. The various nuclear and atomic physics inputs that might affect the result are discussed in Sec. 5.5.
      Some of the interest in BEST and other Ga calibration tests comes from suggestions that νe → νs might be responsible
for the low values of R, as well as other neutrino anomalies. This possibility and the tension with other experiments is
discussed in Sec. 6.



4. Auxiliary Experimental Tests
The SAGE and GALLEX programs considered various steps in the Ge recovery and counting for which the efficiencies
might have been overestimated. No evidence of such was found. The following subsections describe the tests that were
performed.


4.1. Extraction and Synthesis Efficiency

The GALLEX extraction efficiency is based on the volatility of GeCl4 with Ge in the tetravalent state. Efficient extraction
of Ge(IV) carrier and 71 Ge(IV) was confirmed by a number of tests. One such test considered whether 71 Ge produced
by 51 Cr νe capture retained the molecular form for extraction. GALLEX performed a hot-atom chemistry test with
71
     As [65]. Hot-atom chemistry refers to the feature that the produced 71 Ge has a recoil energy resulting from νe capture
and subsequent β emission. As the recoil energy is comparable to the ∼3-4 eV chemical binding energy, the Ge-Cl bond
could be broken, resulting in a depressed extraction efficiency. Also, EC produces an inner shell vacancy that, as it fills,
can produce shake-off electrons altering the charge state, again resulting in molecule breakup. If the Ge ends up in a
non-extractable form such as Ge(II) instead of the expected Ge(IV), the carrier recovery measurements might not be an
accurate measure of the extraction efficiency.
      One can check hot-chemistry effects using 71 As, which decays by EC and β + , producing 71 Ge with kinematics resem-
bling those resulting from 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge for 51 Cr source νe s. By adding a known amount of 71 As (τ1/2 =2.72 d) and
counting the number of extracted 71 Ge atoms produced, GALLEX performed a high-statistics check of potential hot-
chemistry effects. The recovery of 71 Ge was 100±1%, indicating that the produced 71 Ge ends up as volatile extractable
GeCl4 . As there is no known technique for dissolving and stirring As within Ga metal, similar tests for SAGE and BEST
have not been performed.
      Instead, SAGE performed Ga metal hot-atom chemistry tests by doping the detector with radioactive 70,72 Ga produced
by neutron activation [54]. This checked whether introduction of the carriers 70,72 Ge via in situ decay, and thus with
significant recoil energy, would influence the efficiency of their recovery. No change in recovery efficiency was seen.
However, as the maximum recoil energy of 70 Ge after β decay, 32 eV, is larger than both the 20 eV recoil of 71 Ge after
51
     Cr νe capture and the 6.1 eV recoil after pp νe capture, there is not a precise equivalence between the carrier kinematics
and those produced in the neutrino capture reactions.
      On the Earth’s surface, 68 Ge (τ1/2 ∼271 d) is produced cosmogenically within Ga. When the Ga was initially brought
underground, extractions were conducted by SAGE to remove 68 Ge. The reduction of this isotope during these extractions
followed that of the Ge carrier [54]. GALLEX also did extractions to remove 68 Ge. A small fraction of the 68 Ge was
retained: they attributed the extraneous activity to some trace impurity intracting with the 68 Ge, releasing it slowly [47].



                                                               18
They note the effect is very small and only observable because of the very high initial level of 68 Ge.
    SAGE prepared a sample of carrier doped with a known number of 71 Ge atoms, adding the isotope to a reactor
containing seven tons of Ga. Three extractions were performed and the measured rate was as expected from the stable
carrier determination [54].
    The pp solar neutrino flux measurements of SAGE and GALLEX/GNO agree, but also can be compared to the result
from Borexino. If the radiochemical Ga experiments had an efficiency lower than claimed, this would be revealed by a
higher rate in Borexino’s event-by-event detection. The Ga result, (6.0 ± 0.8) × 1010 /cm2 s [29], agrees with that from
Borexino, (6.1 ± 0.5+0.3
                    −0.5 ) × 10 /cm s [66]. However, the comparison is not definitive due to the ∼12% uncertainty of
                               10  2


each measurement.


4.2. Counter Efficiency

A variety of tests were performed by SAGE, GALLEX and BEST to ensure their counter efficiencies were estimated
correctly. SAGE performed a counter efficiency test with 69 Ge [67]. This isotope decays 27% of the time by EC with a
signal identical to that of 71 Ge. The remainder of the decays are EC followed by emission of a 1106-keV γ. By placing a
proportional counter near a HPGe detector, both the γs and Auger emissions could be measured, confirming the Auger
detection efficiency. SAGE also measured the volume efficiency using counters filled with 37 Ar and 71 Ge. The radioactive
gas mixtures were measured in a typical counter then transferred to a large counter specifically designed for very high
efficiency [60]. These radioactive-gas fills also provided data to verify the peak counting efficiency. The volume efficiency
was corrected for gas pressure and mixture (GeH4 fraction). GALLEX used 71 Ge-filled counters [68, 69] to establish their
efficiencies and optimize counter design. BEST measured the volume efficiency of each counter with 37 Ar and 71 Ge after
the experimental measurements were completed. These measurements also determined the peak selection efficiency and
the rise-time cut efficiency [2].


4.3. Detector Effective Path Length and Distribution

This effective neutrino path length ⟨L⟩ through each zone of the BEST detector can be computed from Eq. (2.5). ⟨L⟩,
target Ga mass, and the distribution L(D) were evaluated by Monte Carlo integration, for both the near and far zones.
The as-built geometry for BEST was used to define the integration volumes. Uncertainties in these quantities arise from
the precision of the as-built measurements, the statistical precision of the Monte Carlo integration, and the comparison
between the calculated and measured mass [2]. The total uncertainty is estimated to be ±0.3%, and thus the geometry is
a negligible uncertainty in computing any of these quantities. The values for ⟨L⟩ are given in Table 4.1. The two volumes
were designed to provide similar values for ⟨L⟩ and thus similar event rates, in the absence of oscillations.
    In Fig. 4.1 we plot the dimensionless quantity L(D), which encodes the source and detector geometry effects needed in
determining event rates in the detector as a function of baseline, the distance between the points of neutrino production
in the 51 Cr source and detection in the Ga. See the discussion in Sec. 2.4. In the presence of oscillations, the event
rate r is proportional to the integral over possible baselines D of the convolution of L(D) with the oscillation probability
Pee (Eνi , D).




                                                             19
Table 4.1: The mean free paths for the various measurements and the range of values for the oscillation length. The oscillation length ranges
are our estimates based on the given geometry.


                                Measurement                 ⟨L⟩ (cm)             Oscillation Length Range (cm)

                                SAGE Cr                  72.6 ± 0.2 [54]                       0-109
                                SAGE Ar                  72.6 ± 0.2 [54]                       0-109
                                GALLEX Cr-1               190 ± 1 [70]                         0-194
                                GALLEX Cr-2               190 ± 1 [70]                         0-194
                                BEST-inner               52.03 ± 0.18 [2]                      0-67
                                BEST-outer               54.41 ± 0.18 [2]                    67 -152




                                                1


                                              0.8


                                              0.6
                                       L(D)




                                              0.4


                                              0.2


                                               0
                                                0   20     40   60     80    100 120     140    160    180   200
                                                                            D (cm)



Figure 4.1: The dimensionless distribution L(D) which encodes detector and source geometry needed to compute the distribution of neutrino
captures within the Ga volumes as a function of baseline (the distance D between the points where the neutrino is produced in the source and
detected in the Ga volume). The total rate in the presence of oscillations is proportional to the integral over the convolution of L(D) with the
oscillation probability Pee (Eνi , D) (see Sec. 2.4). Figure courtesy of Ralph Massarczyk.




                                                                            20
5. The 71 Ga Capture Cross Section
A critical issue in the analysis of the BEST and earlier Ga neutrino source calibrations is the cross section for 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge,
a common systematic in all of the experiments. The nuclear physics is shown in Fig. 5.1. Here we summarize work very
recently completed in which the four aspects of this problem were re-examined [3]
                                                    −                                     −
   1. The strength of the transition from the 23        ground state of 71 Ga to the 12       ground state of 71 Ge. This transition
      dominates the neutrino absorption and is tightly constrained by the known electron-capture lifetime of 71 Ge.
   2. The associated partial neutrino cross section 71 Ga(gs)(νe , e− )71 Ge(gs), computed from EC rate after a series of
      electroweak corrections are made.
                                                                                                                   −
   3. Cross section contributions of two kinematically accessible excited states in 71 Ge, at 175 keV ( 25 ) and 500 keV
         −
      ( 32 ).
   4. The line neutrino spectra from the EC sources 51 Cr and 37 Ar that are folded with the cross section, in rate
      estimations.

The fourth point was addressed early in this overview: the cross sections presented below represent weighted averages
over the neutrino lines from each source, with the weights determined by the measured EC branching ratios. The needed
data are given in Table 2.1.


5.1. The Ground State Transition Strength

The allowed strength for the neutrino-driven transition from 71 Ga to the ground state of 71 Ge is
                                                                      A                           2
                                   (ν,e)           1             −
                                                                     X                       −
                                  BGT (gs) ≡            ⟨jfπ = 21 ||     σ(i)τ− (i)||jiπ = 23 ⟩                                (5.1)
                                                2ji + 1              1=1

where σ(i) is the Pauli spin matrix, τ− (i) is the isospin lowering operator, and || denotes a matrix element reduced in
angular momentum. As shown in [3], the Gamow-Teller (GT) transition strength BGT can be extracted from the precisely
measured electron-capture half-life of 71 Ge [43]

                                                    τ 21 [71 Ge] = 11.43 ± 0.03 d

through the relation

                  ln[2]  G2 cos2 θC av 2 2 h                             i
                                                                                  (ν,e)
             ω=         = F        |ϕ1s | Eν,1s 2(1 + ϵ1s
                                                       o  )(1 + PL +PM
                                                                  PK   )    2
                                                                           gA [2 BGT (gs)] [1 + gv,b ]EC [1 + ϵq ]             (5.2)
                   τ 21     2π

This expression gives the total EC rate in terms of the partial rate for 1s-capture. The terms in Eq. (5.2) are

   1. The weak couplings. This expression was evaluated in [3] using Particle Data Group values for the Fermi coupling
      constant GF and the Cabibbo angle θC and the Perkeo II value for the axial vector coupling gA .
   2. The energy of the emitted neutrino Eν,1s , computed from the EC Q-value and 1s binding energy of 10.37 keV

                                         QEC = M [71 Ge] − M [71 Ga] = 232.443 ± 0.093 keV

                                       QEC = Eν,1s + 10.37 keV ⇒ Eν,1s = 222.1 ± 0.1 keV.

   3. The wave function probability, averaged over the nuclear volume, for a 1s electron, |ϕav
                                                                                            1s | . This quantity is taken
                                                                                                2


      from atomic many-body theory, and its uncertainty is addressed in the next section.


                                                                 21
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <latexit sha1_base64="XYRlfqecj/SxS/cyNnCiaU+wpGM=">AAACAHicbVC7SgNBFJ2NrxhfUQsLm8Eg2Bh2Y1ArCdhYRjAPyK5hdnKTDJl9MHNXDEsaf8XGQhFbP8POv3HyKDTxwMDhnHO5c48fS6HRtr+tzNLyyupadj23sbm1vZPf3avrKFEcajySkWr6TIMUIdRQoIRmrIAFvoSGP7ge+40HUFpE4R0OY/AC1gtFV3CGRmrnD1yER9Q4lJCeUTcyWVoa3Z+28wW7aE9AF4kzIwUyQ7Wd/3I7EU8CCJFLpnXLsWP0UqZQcAmjnJtoiBkfsB60DA1ZANpLJweM6LFROrQbKfNCpBP190TKAq2HgW+SAcO+nvfG4n9eK8HupZeKME4QQj5d1E0kxYiO26AdoYCjHBrCuBLmr5T3mWIcTWc5U4Izf/IiqZeKznmxfFsuVK5mdWTJITkiJ8QhF6RCbkiV1AgnI/JMXsmb9WS9WO/WxzSasWYz++QPrM8fO/mWKA==</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            500 keV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <latexit sha1_base64="Mv7BJYrZhl6jB5zibpaQkDQQQkI=">AAAB+XicbVDLSgMxFM3UV62vUZdugkVwVWakPnBVcOOygn1AO5RMeqcNTTJDkimUoX6JGxeKuPVP3Pk3pu0stPVA4HDOvdyTEyacaeN5305hbX1jc6u4XdrZ3ds/cA+PmjpOFYUGjXms2iHRwJmEhmGGQztRQETIoRWO7mZ+awxKs1g+mkkCgSADySJGibFSz3UvPe+pK4gZKpGNoDntuWWv4s2BV4mfkzLKUe+5X91+TFMB0lBOtO74XmKCjCjDKIdpqZtqSAgdkQF0LJVEgA6yefIpPrNKH0exsk8aPFd/b2REaD0RoZ2cZdTL3kz8z+ukJroJMiaT1ICki0NRyrGJ8awG3GcKqOETSwhVzGbFdEgUocaWVbIl+MtfXiXNi4p/Vak+VMu127yOIjpBp+gc+ega1dA9qqMGomiMntErenMy58V5dz4WowUn3zlGf+B8/gA2MZNi</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           90%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <latexit sha1_base64="Nq3/92SD4ozZrHaIQKhHp33fC/I=">AAAB63icbVDLSgNBEOyNrxhfUY9eBkPAU9iVEB+ngBePEcwDkiXMTmaTITOzy8ysEJb8ghcPinj1h7z5N84me9DEgoaiqpvuriDmTBvX/XYKG5tb2zvF3dLe/sHhUfn4pKOjRBHaJhGPVC/AmnImadsww2kvVhSLgNNuML3L/O4TVZpF8tHMYuoLPJYsZASbTLpxB9VhueLW3AXQOvFyUoEcrWH5azCKSCKoNIRjrfueGxs/xcowwum8NEg0jTGZ4jHtWyqxoNpPF7fOUdUqIxRGypY0aKH+nkix0HomAtspsJnoVS8T//P6iQmv/ZTJODFUkuWiMOHIRCh7HI2YosTwmSWYKGZvRWSCFSbGxlOyIXirL6+TzmXNa9TqD/VK8zaPowhncA4X4MEVNOEeWtAGAhN4hld4c4Tz4rw7H8vWgpPPnMIfOJ8/A76NjQ==</latexit>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <latexit sha1_base64="MZFyySWKfCa+qSqORaw6PWOhEZA=">AAACAHicbVC7SgNBFJ2NrxhfUQsLm8Eg2Bh2Q3xUErCxjGAekF3D7OQmGTL7YOauGJY0/oqNhSK2foadf+PkUWjigYHDOedy5x4/lkKjbX9bmaXlldW17HpuY3Nreye/u1fXUaI41HgkI9X0mQYpQqihQAnNWAELfAkNf3A99hsPoLSIwjscxuAFrBeKruAMjdTOH7gIj6hxKCE9o25ksrQ0uj9t5wt20Z6ALhJnRgpkhmo7/+V2Ip4EECKXTOuWY8fopUyh4BJGOTfREDM+YD1oGRqyALSXTg4Y0WOjdGg3UuaFSCfq74mUBVoPA98kA4Z9Pe+Nxf+8VoLdSy8VYZwghHy6qJtIihEdt0E7QgFHOTSEcSXMXynvM8U4ms5ypgRn/uRFUi8VnfNi+bZcqFzN6siSQ3JETohDLkiF3JAqqRFORuSZvJI368l6sd6tj2k0Y81m9skfWJ8/PxeWKg==</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <latexit sha1_base64="qrREf5+nR+QNwxp/Gg9QDmDfGGg=">AAAB8nicbVDLSgNBEJyNrxhfUY9eBoMQQcOuBBVPAS8eI5gHbNYwO+lNhszOLDOzQljyGV48KOLVr/Hm3zh5HDSxoKGo6qa7K0w408Z1v53cyura+kZ+s7C1vbO7V9w/aGqZKgoNKrlU7ZBo4ExAwzDDoZ0oIHHIoRUObyd+6wmUZlI8mFECQUz6gkWMEmMlv9wRaRfO4PH8tFssuRV3CrxMvDkpoTnq3eJXpydpGoMwlBOtfc9NTJARZRjlMC50Ug0JoUPSB99SQWLQQTY9eYxPrNLDkVS2hMFT9fdERmKtR3FoO2NiBnrRm4j/eX5qousgYyJJDQg6WxSlHBuJJ//jHlNADR9ZQqhi9lZMB0QRamxKBRuCt/jyMmleVLzLSvW+WqrdzOPIoyN0jMrIQ1eohu5QHTUQRRI9o1f05hjnxXl3PmatOWc+c4j+wPn8AeqlkFk=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 (⌫e , e )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  175 keV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <latexit sha1_base64="KVcIR32SYMV7TveSEKhtPioEllQ=">AAAB+XicbVDLSgMxFM3UV62vUZdugkVwVWZErbgquHFZwT6gHUomvW1Dk8yQZAplqF/ixoUibv0Td/6NmXYW2nogcDjnXu7JCWPOtPG8b6ewtr6xuVXcLu3s7u0fuIdHTR0likKDRjxS7ZBo4ExCwzDDoR0rICLk0ArHd5nfmoDSLJKPZhpDIMhQsgGjxFip57p+9eqpK4gZKZGOoTnruWWv4s2BV4mfkzLKUe+5X91+RBMB0lBOtO74XmyClCjDKIdZqZtoiAkdkyF0LJVEgA7SefIZPrNKHw8iZZ80eK7+3kiJ0HoqQjuZZdTLXib+53USM7gJUibjxICki0ODhGMT4awG3GcKqOFTSwhVzGbFdEQUocaWVbIl+MtfXiXNi4p/Xbl8uCzXbvM6iugEnaJz5KMqqqF7VEcNRNEEPaNX9Oakzovz7nwsRgtOvnOM/sD5/AFCuJNq</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <latexit sha1_base64="NdfXvw5EqDEvNovOC5XtO2KG//U=">AAACAHicbVC7SgNBFJ31GeNr1cLCZjAINobdENRKAjaWEcwDsmuYndwkQ2YfzNwVw5LGX7GxUMTWz7Dzb5w8Ck08MHA451zu3BMkUmh0nG9raXlldW09t5Hf3Nre2bX39us6ThWHGo9lrJoB0yBFBDUUKKGZKGBhIKERDK7HfuMBlBZxdIfDBPyQ9SLRFZyhkdr2oYfwiBqHEjKXerHJ0tLo/qxtF5yiMwFdJO6MFMgM1bb95XVinoYQIZdM65brJOhnTKHgEkZ5L9WQMD5gPWgZGrEQtJ9NDhjRE6N0aDdW5kVIJ+rviYyFWg/DwCRDhn09743F/7xWit1LPxNRkiJEfLqom0qKMR23QTtCAUc5NIRxJcxfKe8zxTiazvKmBHf+5EVSLxXd82L5tlyoXM3qyJEjckxOiUsuSIXckCqpEU5G5Jm8kjfryXqx3q2PaXTJms0ckD+wPn8AONuWJg==</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      0 keV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <latexit sha1_base64="LL0M/wIKLFGKaFSmb+pi+2hkgR8=">AAAB9XicbVDLSgMxFL1TX7W+qi7dBIvgqsxIUXFVcOOygn1AO5ZMmmlDk8yQZJQy1O9w40IRt/6LO//GTDsLbT0QOJxzL/fkBDFn2rjut1NYWV1b3yhulra2d3b3yvsHLR0litAmiXikOgHWlDNJm4YZTjuxolgEnLaD8XXmtx+o0iySd2YSU1/goWQhI9hY6d596glsRkqkY9qa9ssVt+rOgJaJl5MK5Gj0y1+9QUQSQaUhHGvd9dzY+ClWhhFOp6VeommMyRgPaddSiQXVfjpLPUUnVhmgMFL2SYNm6u+NFAutJyKwk1lGvehl4n9eNzHhpZ8yGSeGSjI/FCYcmQhlFaABU5QYPrEEE8VsVkRGWGFibFElW4K3+OVl0jqreufV2m2tUr/K6yjCERzDKXhwAXW4gQY0gYCCZ3iFN+fReXHenY/5aMHJdw7hD5zPH9Vykrg=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <latexit sha1_base64="CrXpulzEt2vizZ9k9VAVutoA9U0=">AAAB+XicbVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfUZduBovgqiQi1pUUXOiygn1AG8tkOmmHTiZhZlIoIX/ixoUibv0Td/6NkzYLbT0wcDjnXu6Z48ecKe0431ZpbX1jc6u8XdnZ3ds/sA+P2ipKJKEtEvFIdn2sKGeCtjTTnHZjSXHoc9rxJ7e535lSqVgkHvUspl6IR4IFjGBtpIFtP6V1N+uHWI9lmN7RbGBXnZozB1olbkGqUKA5sL/6w4gkIRWacKxUz3Vi7aVYakY4zSr9RNEYkwke0Z6hAodUeek8eYbOjDJEQSTNExrN1d8bKQ6VmoW+mcwjqmUvF//zeokOrr2UiTjRVJDFoSDhSEcorwENmaRE85khmEhmsiIyxhITbcqqmBLc5S+vkvZFzb2qXT5cVhs3RR1lOIFTOAcX6tCAe2hCCwhM4Rle4c1KrRfr3fpYjJasYucY/sD6/AGFepOX</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Ge




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <latexit sha1_base64="J/OWmPDYf79oECEbNeplaqowr3k=">AAAB63icbVBNS8NAEJ3Ur1q/qh69LJaCp5JIUfFU8OKxgv2ANpTNdtMu3d2E3Y1QQv+CFw+KePUPefPfuElz0NYHA4/3ZpiZF8ScaeO6305pY3Nre6e8W9nbPzg8qh6fdHWUKEI7JOKR6gdYU84k7RhmOO3HimIRcNoLZneZ33uiSrNIPpp5TH2BJ5KFjGCTSZ47rI+qNbfh5kDrxCtIDQq0R9Wv4TgiiaDSEI61HnhubPwUK8MIp4vKMNE0xmSGJ3RgqcSCaj/Nb12gulXGKIyULWlQrv6eSLHQei4C2ymwmepVLxP/8waJCW/8lMk4MVSS5aIw4chEKHscjZmixPC5JZgoZm9FZIoVJsbGU7EheKsvr5PuZcO7ajQfmrXWbRFHGc7gHC7Ag2towT20oQMEpvAMr/DmCOfFeXc+lq0lp5g5hT9wPn8A93eNhQ==</latexit>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <latexit sha1_base64="qrREf5+nR+QNwxp/Gg9QDmDfGGg=">AAAB8nicbVDLSgNBEJyNrxhfUY9eBoMQQcOuBBVPAS8eI5gHbNYwO+lNhszOLDOzQljyGV48KOLVr/Hm3zh5HDSxoKGo6qa7K0w408Z1v53cyura+kZ+s7C1vbO7V9w/aGqZKgoNKrlU7ZBo4ExAwzDDoZ0oIHHIoRUObyd+6wmUZlI8mFECQUz6gkWMEmMlv9wRaRfO4PH8tFssuRV3CrxMvDkpoTnq3eJXpydpGoMwlBOtfc9NTJARZRjlMC50Ug0JoUPSB99SQWLQQTY9eYxPrNLDkVS2hMFT9fdERmKtR3FoO2NiBnrRm4j/eX5qousgYyJJDQg6WxSlHBuJJ//jHlNADR9ZQqhi9lZMB0QRamxKBRuCt/jyMmleVLzLSvW+WqrdzOPIoyN0jMrIQ1eohu5QHTUQRRI9o1f05hjnxXl3PmatOWc+c4j+wPn8AeqlkFk=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (⌫e , e )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                EC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              <latexit sha1_base64="/t92ZjjsRFSwvu/pCXqGobGToYU=">AAAB8nicbVDLSgMxFL1TX7W+qi7dBIvgqsyIqLgqFMFlBfuA6VAyaaYNTSZDkhHK0M9w40IRt36NO//GTDsLbT0QOJxzLzn3hAln2rjut1NaW9/Y3CpvV3Z29/YPqodHHS1TRWibSC5VL8SachbTtmGG016iKBYhp91w0sz97hNVmsn40UwTGgg8ilnECDZW8vsCm7ES2V1zNqjW3Lo7B1olXkFqUKA1qH71h5KkgsaGcKy177mJCTKsDCOczir9VNMEkwkeUd/SGAuqg2weeYbOrDJEkVT2xQbN1d8bGRZaT0VoJ/OIetnLxf88PzXRTZCxOEkNjcnioyjlyEiU34+GTFFi+NQSTBSzWREZY4WJsS1VbAne8smrpHNR967qlw+XtcZtUUcZTuAUzsGDa2jAPbSgDQQkPMMrvDnGeXHenY/FaMkpdo7hD5zPH2HqkU4=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <latexit sha1_base64="XYRlfqecj/SxS/cyNnCiaU+wpGM=">AAACAHicbVC7SgNBFJ2NrxhfUQsLm8Eg2Bh2Y1ArCdhYRjAPyK5hdnKTDJl9MHNXDEsaf8XGQhFbP8POv3HyKDTxwMDhnHO5c48fS6HRtr+tzNLyyupadj23sbm1vZPf3avrKFEcajySkWr6TIMUIdRQoIRmrIAFvoSGP7ge+40HUFpE4R0OY/AC1gtFV3CGRmrnD1yER9Q4lJCeUTcyWVoa3Z+28wW7aE9AF4kzIwUyQ7Wd/3I7EU8CCJFLpnXLsWP0UqZQcAmjnJtoiBkfsB60DA1ZANpLJweM6LFROrQbKfNCpBP190TKAq2HgW+SAcO+nvfG4n9eK8HupZeKME4QQj5d1E0kxYiO26AdoYCjHBrCuBLmr5T3mWIcTWc5U4Izf/IiqZeKznmxfFsuVK5mdWTJITkiJ8QhF6RCbkiV1AgnI/JMXsmb9WS9WO/WxzSasWYz++QPrM8fO/mWKA==</latexit>




                                         0 keV
                                         <latexit sha1_base64="LL0M/wIKLFGKaFSmb+pi+2hkgR8=">AAAB9XicbVDLSgMxFL1TX7W+qi7dBIvgqsxIUXFVcOOygn1AO5ZMmmlDk8yQZJQy1O9w40IRt/6LO//GTDsLbT0QOJxzL/fkBDFn2rjut1NYWV1b3yhulra2d3b3yvsHLR0litAmiXikOgHWlDNJm4YZTjuxolgEnLaD8XXmtx+o0iySd2YSU1/goWQhI9hY6d596glsRkqkY9qa9ssVt+rOgJaJl5MK5Gj0y1+9QUQSQaUhHGvd9dzY+ClWhhFOp6VeommMyRgPaddSiQXVfjpLPUUnVhmgMFL2SYNm6u+NFAutJyKwk1lGvehl4n9eNzHhpZ8yGSeGSjI/FCYcmQhlFaABU5QYPrEEE8VsVkRGWGFibFElW4K3+OVl0jqreufV2m2tUr/K6yjCERzDKXhwAXW4gQY0gYCCZ3iFN+fReXHenY/5aMHJdw7hD5zPH9Vykrg=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             51
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Cr 37 Ar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <latexit sha1_base64="URfoMsP47hkz4sDpavXD4Oiix/w=">AAAB+XicbVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfUZduBovgqiTiC1eFblxWsA9oY5lMJ+3QySTMTAol5E/cuFDErX/izr9x0mahrQcGDufcyz1z/JgzpR3n2yqtrW9sbpW3Kzu7e/sH9uFRW0WJJLRFIh7Jro8V5UzQlmaa024sKQ59Tjv+pJH7nSmVikXiUc9i6oV4JFjACNZGGtj2U3rlZv0Q67EM04bMBnbVqTlzoFXiFqQKBZoD+6s/jEgSUqEJx0r1XCfWXoqlZoTTrNJPFI0xmeAR7RkqcEiVl86TZ+jMKEMURNI8odFc/b2R4lCpWeibyTyiWvZy8T+vl+jg1kuZiBNNBVkcChKOdITyGtCQSUo0nxmCiWQmKyJjLDHRpqyKKcFd/vIqaV/U3Ova5cNltX5X1FGGEziFc3DhBupwD01oAYEpPMMrvFmp9WK9Wx+L0ZJV7BzDH1ifP47Nk5o=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <latexit sha1_base64="HuobHfEybkY8Jk35LYEC9da1Pfo=">AAAB+3icbVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfsS7dDBbBVUm0WHFVceOygn1AG8tkOmmHTiZhZiKWkF9x40IRt/6IO//GSduFVg8MHM65l3vm+DFnSjvOl1VYWV1b3yhulra2d3b37P1yW0WJJLRFIh7Jro8V5UzQlmaa024sKQ59Tjv+5Dr3Ow9UKhaJOz2NqRfikWABI1gbaWCX0+w+Patn/RDrsQzTK5kN7IpTdWZAf4m7IBVYoDmwP/vDiCQhFZpwrFTPdWLtpVhqRjjNSv1E0RiTCR7RnqECh1R56Sx7ho6NMkRBJM0TGs3UnxspDpWahr6ZzCOqZS8X//N6iQ4uvJSJONFUkPmhIOFIRygvAg2ZpETzqSGYSGayIjLGEhNt6iqZEtzlL/8l7dOqe16t3dYqjctFHUU4hCM4ARfq0IAbaEILCDzCE7zAq5VZz9ab9T4fLViLnQP4BevjG2Q8lKg=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  71
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  <latexit sha1_base64="HVIGv0FgRqXiYAYlJhhHxzmIeCM=">AAAB+XicbVDLSsNAFL2pr1pfUZduBovgqiQi1pUUXOiygn1AG8tkOmmHTiZhZlIoIX/ixoUibv0Td/6NkzYLbT0wcDjnXu6Z48ecKe0431ZpbX1jc6u8XdnZ3ds/sA+P2ipKJKEtEvFIdn2sKGeCtjTTnHZjSXHoc9rxJ7e535lSqVgkHvUspl6IR4IFjGBtpIFtP6V1N+uHWI9lmN7hbGBXnZozB1olbkGqUKA5sL/6w4gkIRWacKxUz3Vi7aVYakY4zSr9RNEYkwke0Z6hAodUeek8eYbOjDJEQSTNExrN1d8bKQ6VmoW+mcwjqmUvF//zeokOrr2UiTjRVJDFoSDhSEcorwENmaRE85khmEhmsiIyxhITbcqqmBLc5S+vkvZFzb2qXT5cVhs3RR1lOIFTOAcX6tCAe2hCCwhM4Rle4c1KrRfr3fpYjJasYucY/sD6/AF/ZpOT</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Ga
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     neutrino sources
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <latexit sha1_base64="PcGA0uCICqeRnw9/paWVDE5g6Ho=">AAACAnicbVDLSgMxFM34rPU16krcBIvgqsxIUXFVcOOygn1AO5RMmrahmWRI7ghlqG78FTcuFHHrV7jzb8y0s9DWA4HDOffe3HvCWHADnvftLC2vrK6tFzaKm1vbO7vu3n7DqERTVqdKKN0KiWGCS1YHDoK1Ys1IFArWDEfXmd+8Z9pwJe9gHLMgIgPJ+5wSsFLXPexEBIY6SiVLQHOpHmajzaTrlryyNwVeJH5OSihHret+dXqKJhGTQAUxpu17MQQp0cCpYJNiJzEsJnREBqxtqSQRM0E6PWGCT6zSw32l7ZOAp+rvjpRExoyj0FZmC5t5LxP/89oJ9C+DlMs4ASbp7KN+IjAonOWBe1wzCmJsCaGa210xHRJNKNjUijYEf/7kRdI4K/vn5cptpVS9yuMooCN0jE6Rjy5QFd2gGqojih7RM3pFb86T8+K8Ox+z0iUn7zlAf+B8/gAKUph5</latexit>




    Figure 5.1: Level diagram for 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge showing the states contributing to the absorption of 51 Cr and 37 Ar EC neutrinos.



  4. The factor in the first square bracket relates single-electron 1s capture rate to the total EC rate. It includes a) a
     factor of two, as there are two 1s electrons; b) an exchange and overlap correction, taken from theory, that accounts
     for the fact that an instantaneous hole in the atomic cloud of 71 Ge does not overlap precisely with a similar hole in
     the daughter nucleus 71 Ga and c) the contributions from L and M EC capture relative to K capture, expressed in
     terms of the experimentally known capture probabilities PK , PL , and PM .
  5. The second square bracket expresses the allowed matrix element for EC in terms of that for (νe , e− ), BEC
                                                                                                             GT =
         (ν,e)
     2 BGT (gs).
  6. The factor [1+gv,b ]EC is the contribution from radiative corrections (the exchange of virtual photons and bremsstrahlung).
  7. The factor [1 + ϵq ] represents contributions beyond the allowed approximation. This contribution is dominated by
     the term linear in the three-momentum transfer q arising from interference between the allowed amplitude and weak
     magnetism. While the weak magnetism contribution is constrained by the known isovector magnetic moment, there
     are additional contributions that must be taken from nuclear theory [3].

   The various terms in Eq. (5.2) have uncertainties, which are discussed in detail in [3] and, partially, in the next section
of this paper. One finds that the gs ↔ gs transition strength for (ν, e− ) is constrained by the known EC rate to about
1%, when all such uncertainties are considered

                                 (ν,e)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (ν,e)
                               B̃GT (gs) ≡ BGT (gs) [1 + gv,b ]EC = 0.0864 ± 0.0010 (95% C.L.)



5.2. The Ground State Neutrino Capture Cross Section

The cross section for 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge(gs) can be expressed in terms of the allowed matrix element defined above,

                                         G2F cos2 θC                        (ν,e)   [1 + gv,b ](ν,e)
                              σgs =                                     2
                                                     pe Ee F(Zf , Ee ) gA B̃GT (gs)                  [1 + ϵq ].                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (5.3)
                                              π                                      [1 + gv,b ]EC

The terms in Eq. (5.3) are

  1. Ee and pe are the energy and three-momentum of the produced electron, related to the Q-value by

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Ee = Eν − QEC + me − 0.09 keV


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               22
     where the last term on the right is a small correction for the energy lost to electronic rearrangement, following the
     neutrino reaction.
  2. F(Zf , Ee ) is the correction for the effects of Coulomb distortion of the outgoing electron. It corresponds to the
     Dirac solution for a nuclear charge distribution, here described as a Fermi distribution constrained to reproduce the
     experimental r.m.s. radius, with additional corrections to account for atomic screening.
  3. The ratio [1+gv,b ](ν,e) /[1+gv,b ]EC accounts for the differential effects of radiative correction on the inverse reactions
     of EC and (νe , e− ). This difference, generated by the bremsstrahlung contribution, was calculated as in [71].
  4. The factor [1 + ϵq ] is the correction for forbidden contributions, again dominated by the interference term involving
     weak magnetism.

   When these terms are combined and associated errors propagated, one finds for the 51 Cr and 37 Ar sources [3]
                                   
                                    (5.39 ± 0.06) × 10−45 cm2 51 Cr
                             σgs =                                        (95% C.L.)                                            (5.4)
                                    (6.45 ± 0.07) × 10−45 cm2 37 Ar


5.3. Excited-State Contributions to the Neutrino Capture Cross Section

The strength of the well-determined ground state cross section is already sufficient to generate a Ga anomaly. The
                          ‘                     −
contributions from the 52 (175 keV) and 32          (500 keV) excited states exacerbate the anomaly, but unlike the ground
state transition, are not constrained by known weak rates. As described in [3], early efforts to estimate the excited-state
contributions utilized nuclear systematics and shell model (SM) calculations, producing uneven results and thwarting
efforts to assign uncertanties. With the establishment the forward-angle (p,n) scattering as a reliable probe of the BGT
strength distribution, this became the method of choice to constrain the two excited states. The (p,n) 71 Ga strength
distribution was measured by Krofcheck et al. [72],
                                      h                              i
                                 (p,n) 71                 −
                               BGT      Ga(gs) → 71 Ge( 52 ; 175 keV) ≲ 0.005
                                      h                              i
                                (p,n)                     −
                               BGT 71 Ga(gs) → 71 Ge( 32 ; 500 keV) = 0.011 ± 0.002                                             (5.5)

These results were then used by Bahcall [49] and others to estimate the cross sections to the two excited states.
   Earlier Hata and Haxton [38] had pointed out that the (p,n) reaction, while successful when used to map the broad
profile of BGT strength, is not a reliable probe of individual weak GT transitions, such as those in Eq. (5.5), unless
additional corrections are made. By comparing transitions with known weak strengths with the corresponding forward-
angle (p,n) cross sections, an effective operator was empirically determined [73]. It includes, in addition to the GT
operator, a subdominant contribution from a tensor operator ÔT
                                                              J=1
                                                                  ,
                                                                                            A
                                                                                            X
                                                                                   √
     M (p,n) ≡ MGT + δMT                          J=1
                                  MT ≡ ⟨Jf αf ||ÔT   ||Ji αi ⟩           J=1
                                                                        ÔT   =        8π         [Y2 (Ωj ) ⊗ σ(j)]J=1 τ+ (j)   (5.6)
                                                                                            j=1

where δ ∼ 0.1, so that
                                            (p,n)        1
                                            BGT =             |⟨Jf αf ||M (p,n) ||Ji αi ⟩|2 .                                   (5.7)
                                                      2ji + 1
                                                                                                                                   −
It was stressed in [38, 39] that 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge might be quite sensitive to the tensor contribution, as the 71 Ga 32
                                            −
ground state transition to the 175 keV 25       excited state might be dominated by ℓ-forbidden 2p3/2 ↔ 1f5/2 amplitude.
Thus while δ ∼ 0.1, the tensor operator could easily dominate the transition.



                                                                  23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       blue : |M   p,n|/|M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |/|MGT| |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <latexit sha1_base64="4L9s9b4jBPrTSQTaVGd7YdeH/vg=">AAACC3icbVDLSsNAFJ3UV62vqEs3oUWoIDWRouKq4EI3QoW+oA1hMp20QyeTMDMRSpq9G3/FjQtF3PoD7vwbJ20WtfXAhcM593LvPW5IiZCm+aPlVlbX1jfym4Wt7Z3dPX3/oCWCiCPcRAENeMeFAlPCcFMSSXEn5Bj6LsVtd3ST+u1HzAUJWEOOQ2z7cMCIRxCUSnL04uTe6flQDrkfl8NTdpJMzuak20YycfSSWTGnMJaJlZESyFB39O9eP0CRj5lEFArRtcxQ2jHkkiCKk0IvEjiEaAQHuKsogz4Wdjz9JTGOldI3vICrYtKYqvMTMfSFGPuu6kxvFIteKv7ndSPpXdkxYWEkMUOzRV5EDRkYaTBGn3CMJB0rAhEn6lYDDSGHSKr4CioEa/HlZdI6r1gXlepDtVS7zuLIgyNQBGVggUtQA3egDpoAgSfwAt7Au/asvWof2uesNadlM4fgD7SvXzbtmyc=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               |M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <latexit sha1_base64="pxOiUMCIxYb6cn+ylixmnaxTn7s=">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</latexit>




                   3.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (p,n)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |M(p,n)        |/|M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    GT | |
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            <latexit sha1_base64="1Ck9kyrLARDE9rWqOZ3XACfI1vU=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            red : |M  p,n MM T |/|M
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <latexit sha1_base64="kRnp+zx2yB4N5d8jV9eHRtV8/Ew=">AAACH3icbVDLSgMxFM3UV62vUZdugkWooHVGShVXBRe6ESr0BW0pmTTThmYyQ5IRynT+xI2/4saFIuKuf2OmLVhbDwROzrmXe+9xAkalsqyxkVpZXVvfSG9mtrZ3dvfM/YOa9EOBSRX7zBcNB0nCKCdVRRUjjUAQ5DmM1J3BbeLXn4iQ1OcVNQxI20M9Tl2KkdJSxyyOHjotD6m+8KJccMZP4/NWlzCF4K9eiUcXc2V3+t8xs1bemgAuE3tGsmCGcsf8bnV9HHqEK8yQlE3bClQ7QkJRzEicaYWSBAgPUI80NeXII7IdTe6L4YlWutD1hX5cwYk63xEhT8qh5+jKZEe56CXif14zVO51O6I8CBXheDrIDRlUPkzCgl0qCFZsqAnCgupdIe4jgbDSkWZ0CPbiycukdpm3i/nCYyFbupnFkQZH4BjkgA2uQAncgzKoAgyewSt4Bx/Gi/FmfBpf09KUMes5BH9gjH8A3EOjfw==</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           tensor
                   3.0
                             32
                             <latexit sha1_base64="Y1o4PZt+4e+yHzR+45XkQd+1Yi4=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                S(0+ ) ! 32 Cl(1+ ) (0.0MeV)
                   2.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       <latexit sha1_base64="JCqjM9rK/+7e2atnqfNKWZs095s=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       19
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F( 12 ) ! 19 Ne( 32 , 1.55 MeV)
                   2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 15
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 <latexit sha1_base64="5bsTgOz/Gwbp5trKPY4fGKphFU8=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              N( 12 ) ! 15 O( 12 )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      12
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <latexit sha1_base64="gX4U63woDZdcr7z71hfFAClWmsk=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C( 12   )!   13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         N( 12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                )
                   1.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            +             +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <latexit sha1_base64="51IaCnpF4NuVrdCtGB69c7Wyjc4=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    39
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       K( 32 ) ! 39 Ca( 32 )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <latexit sha1_base64="hQmO+wOwEhuPktVgpDuMBv4VdTA=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <latexit sha1_base64="srWV72zBExOZZ8QQHSB64QEmNK8=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          19                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               O(0+ ) ! 18 F(1+ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       F( 12 ) ! 19 Ne( 12 )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          26
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          <latexit sha1_base64="SsV8BMFclxTJ3nnPC9wOmTULWZw=">AAACO3icbVC7SgNBFJ31bXytWtoMBkERwm4I0TJiYyOomChkY5id3CRDZh/M3FXDsv9l40/Y2dhYKGJr7+RRGPXAwOGcc5l7jx9LodFxnq2p6ZnZufmFxdzS8srqmr2+UdNRojhUeSQjde0zDVKEUEWBEq5jBSzwJVz5veOBf3ULSosovMR+DI2AdULRFpyhkZr2xU1aLGdewLCrgvS0k+16CPeosS8hdbKb/T3qKdHpIlMquqNpNpE/khN5d5hv2nmn4AxB/xJ3TPJkjLOm/eS1Ip4EECKXTOu668TYSJlCwSVkOS/REDPeYx2oGxqyAHQjHd6e0R2jtGg7UuaFSIfqz4mUBVr3A98kB0vr395A/M+rJ9g+bKQijBOEkI8+aieSYkQHRdKWUMBR9g1hXAmzK+VdphhHU3fOlOD+PvkvqRULbrlQOi/lK6VxHQtki2yTXeKSA1IhJ+SMVAknD+SFvJF369F6tT6sz1F0yhrPbJIJWF/f0TuvFw==</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    +
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Mg(0 ) !                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Al(1 )

                   1.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      +                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   14
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             <latexit sha1_base64="ycRbFrVCyYacSbTiRqeC9mANxYU=">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</latexit>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               <latexit sha1_base64="SI+Zl5ujR97oyZPl7zbbrykGx+I=">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</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             17
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       O( 52 ) ! 17 F( 52 )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C(0+ ) ! 14 N(1+ )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                O(0+ ) ! 18 F(1+ , 1.7 MeV)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      <latexit sha1_base64="K2yhGuISED3DJpshlbO9CP3m6Mw=">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</latexit>




                   0.5

                   0.0
                     0.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     0.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.0                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.5                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   p
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   <latexit sha1_base64="f2dtsN0ft8CRiOrsUjwB2In7ghQ=">AAACBHicbVDLSsNAFJ3UV62vqMtuBovgqiRS1JUUXeiyQl/QlDKZTtqhk0mcuRFKyMKNv+LGhSJu/Qh3/o3Tx0JbD1w4nHMv997jx4JrcJxvK7eyura+kd8sbG3v7O7Z+wdNHSWKsgaNRKTaPtFMcMkawEGwdqwYCX3BWv7oeuK3HpjSPJJ1GMesG5KB5AGnBIzUs4uevleQYi8kMFRhenVTz3qez4BkuGeXnLIzBV4m7pyU0By1nv3l9SOahEwCFUTrjuvE0E2JAk4FywpeollM6IgMWMdQSUKmu+n0iQwfG6WPg0iZkoCn6u+JlIRaj0PfdE5u1YveRPzP6yQQXHRTLuMEmKSzRUEiMER4kgjuc8UoiLEhhCpubsV0SBShYHIrmBDcxZeXSfO07J6VK3eVUvVyHkceFdEROkEuOkdVdItqqIEoekTP6BW9WU/Wi/Vufcxac9Z85hD9gfX5A8lwmC0=</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    BGT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BGT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     <latexit sha1_base64="UvNOqlAkdh+/uuXwl5EoUVrAVig=">AAAB+HicbVDLSgMxFM3UV62Pjrp0EyyCqzIjRV1J0YUuK/QF7TBk0kwbmmSGJCPUYb7EjQtF3Pop7vwbM+0stPVA4HDOvdyTE8SMKu0431ZpbX1jc6u8XdnZ3duv2geHXRUlEpMOjlgk+wFShFFBOppqRvqxJIgHjPSC6W3u9x6JVDQSbT2LicfRWNCQYqSN5NvVIUd6Inl646d37Szz7ZpTd+aAq8QtSA0UaPn213AU4YQToTFDSg1cJ9ZeiqSmmJGsMkwUiRGeojEZGCoQJ8pL58EzeGqUEQwjaZ7QcK7+3kgRV2rGAzOZx1TLXi7+5w0SHV55KRVxoonAi0NhwqCOYN4CHFFJsGYzQxCW1GSFeIIkwtp0VTEluMtfXiXd87p7UW88NGrN66KOMjgGJ+AMuOASNME9aIEOwCABz+AVvFlP1ov1bn0sRktWsXME/sD6/AELq5NX</latexit>




Figure 5.2: In blue: correspondence between the (p,n) amplitude |M (p,n) | and the beta decay amplitude |MGT | is excellent when BGT is
strong, but deteriorates for weaker BGT . In red: the agreement is restored with the inclusion of |MT |. The two excited states that contribute
to the BEST cross section have weak transition strengths that would place them in the shaded region, where the agreement between (p,n)
cross sections and BGT is typically poor unless the tensor correction is included.


    Equation (5.6) states the GT strength can still be measured through forward-angle (p,n) measurements, provided
one subtracts the contribution from MT . While analyses were done in [38, 39], the recent work of [3] was the first to
adequately assess the whether M (p,n) could quantitatively account for known weak transition rates. In this work, a) the
transitions were carefully selected so that only data with well-established errors were included; b) the estimates of MT ,
which must be taken from theory, were computed for multiple interactions, to provide a measure of that uncertainty;
and c) the pattern of the results were displayed as a function of the BGT strength, to clearly display the effects of the
subdominant amplitude. The many details of this analysis are given in [3].
    The results, displayed in Fig. 5.2, are quite dramatic. A naive use of (p,n) reactions to map BGT works well for strong
transitions, but deteriorates as the transition strengths lessen, becoming highly unreliable for transitions of the strength
of current interest, given by Eq. (5.5). However, with the inclusion of the typically subdominant tensor operator, the
correlation between the (p,n) measurements and known weak strengths is restored. In using Eq. (5.6), Ref. [3] takes
into account uncertainties in measurements, in the determination of the strength constant δ, and in variations in the
theoretical estimates of MT . The end results is a determination of the tensor strength, δ = 0.075 ± 0.008 (1σ).
    The effective operator can then be used in conjunction with the (p,n) measurements to extract the needed BGT
strengths for 71 Ga. The results can be expressed as [3]
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  −                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              −
                         BGT ( 52 )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   BGT ( 32 )
                                    < 0.089                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   (68% C.L.)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         = 0.121 ± 0.026                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  (68% C.L.)                 (5.8)
                         BGT (gs)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     BGT (gs)

The total cross section can be expressed in terms of these ratios as [38]
                                            "                                            #
                                                              5−                    3−
                                                    −  B GT (    )        −  B GT (    )
                                   σ = σgs 1 + ξ( 25 )        2
                                                                   + ξ( 23 )        2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (5.9)
                                                        BGT (gs)             BGT (gs)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24
where the phase-space coefficients are [3]

                     51                 −                  −                                 −               −
                          Cr : ξ( 52 ) = 0.669 ξ( 32 ) = 0.220                 37
                                                                                    Ar : ξ( 52 ) = 0.696 ξ( 32 ) = 0.264

This then leads to the following total cross sections
                                                                                      
                                                 
                                                  5.71+0.27                  68% C.L. 
                                                                                       
                                                       −0.10
                                  σ(51 Cr) =                                                × 10−45 cm2
                                                 
                                                  5.71+0.51                           
                                                       −0.23                  95% C.L. 
                                                                                                                              (5.10)
                                                                                      
                                                               
                                                                6.88+0.34    68% C.L. 
                                                                                       
                                                                     −0.13
                                            σ(37 Ar)   =                                    × 10−45 cm2
                                                               
                                                                6.88+0.63             
                                                                     −0.28    95% C.L. 

      This analysis leads to somewhat larger excited-state contributions because the GT and tensor operators interfere
destructively for these transitions, which then requires a larger MGT to compensate. The excited states increase the total
71
     Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge cross sections by ∼ 6.0% and ∼ 6.6% for 51 Cr and 37 Ar, respectively.
      Reference [3] also includes an analysis of excited-state contributions based on forward-angle (3 He,t) charge-exchange
cross sections [74].


5.4. Comparisons to Past Work

There are a number of older cross section estimates available in the literature, summarized in Table 5.1. Some of their
relevant attributes include:

     1. Bahcall (1997) [49]: This work included, in its estimate of σgs , overlap and exchange atomic effects, and used the
        then prevailing value of QEC = 232.69 ± 0.15 keV. Excited state BGT values were taken from the (p,n) values of
        [72] without any added corrections.
     2. Haxton (1998) [39]: Extending the arguments of [38], this paper was to explore in detail the possible consequences
        of interfering GT and tensor contributions to the (p,n) cross section for the 175 keV excited state, in extracting the
        neutrino absorption cross section. The broad error assigned reflects two factors, a 30% larger value for δ, which
        can be traced to deficiencies in the (p,n) data then available (see [3]), and a SM estimate of the tensor amplitude
                        −          −
        MT for the 32       → 52       transition that was nearly half of the single-particle 2p3/2 ↔ 1f5/2 value. As the tensor and
        GT amplitudes interfere, this allows for a large GT matrix element. The paper discusses the importance of using
        the full 2p3/2 1f5/2 1p1/2 1g9/2 SM space in order to properly describe the shape co-existence properties of Ga and
        Ge, but only the simplest effects of the 1g9/2 shell were included in the calculations done, as the technology of
        the time limited bases to dimensions ≲ 106 . (Use of the full SM space generates m-scheme bases exceeding 108 ).
        Consequently, anticipating that the absence of correlation would make the truncated SM estimate of |MT | too large,
        the author treated the SM estimate as an upper bound, yielding the broad range of cross sections shown in Table
        5.1.
     3. Barinov et al. (2018) [75]: This work used weak couplings updated to 2018, including a value for gA of 1.272 ±
        0.002, and adopted the QEC = 233.5 ± 1.2 keV, which came from a Penning trap measurement of the mass difference
        [76], though this value had been superseded by a more accurate trapping result from [77]. This choice of QEC
        accounts in part for the slightly larger cross section obtained, compared to [49].



                                                                         25
Table 5.1: A summary of the published neutrino reaction cross section estimates for 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge in units of 10−45 cm2 . The value for
QEC used in each calculation is shown. All results are given at 68% C.L. See text for details.


                          Author                      Year       σ(51 Cr)        σ(37 Ar)        QEC (71 Ge) (keV)

                          Bahcall [49]                1997      5.81+0.21
                                                                    −0.16       7.00+0.49
                                                                                    −0.21           232.69(15)
                          Haxton [39]                 1998     6.39 ± 0.68           –              232.69(15)
                          Barinov et al. [75]         2018     5.91 ± 0.11     7.14 ± 0.15          233.5(1.2)
                          Kostensalo et al. [78]      2019     5.67 ± 0.06     6.80 ± 0.08          232.49(22)
                          Semenov [79]                2020     5.94 ± 0.12     7.17 ± 0.15          232.44(9)
                          Haxton et al. [3]           2023      5.71+0.27
                                                                    −0.10       6.88+0.34
                                                                                    −0.13           232.44(9)



   4. Kostensalo et al (2019) [78]: This work followed [39] by including the tensor correction in its analysis of excited-state
      contributions. The analysis employs SM estimates of the GT and tensor matrix elements. In [3] it is noted that
      calculations using the identical interaction did not reproduce the tabulated GT and tensor matrix elements of [78].
   5. Semenov (2020) [79]: This work follows [49] quite closely, treating the excited states as was done there, but utilizing
      updated weak couplings and and taking QEC from [77], which remains the best value.
   6. Haxton et al. (2023) [3]: As described here, this work includes a much more advanced extraction of the needed
      excited-state contributions, propagating all identified experimental and theoretical errors in the determination of δ
      and estimation of MT . That is, the excited-state treatment follows the plan of [39], but with improved data and
      error propagation and without SM limitations. Current Particle Data Group and Perkeo II weak couplings were
      used, and both radiative corrections and the contributions of weak magnetism were included in the EC and (νe , e− )
      calculations.

    The original BEST analysis [1, 2] was done using the cross section from Bahcall [49], which is in reasonably good
agreement with the recent determination of [3]. In [3], a variety of small changes – updated values for weak couplings
and for QEC , the inclusion of radiative corrections, the inclusion of weak magnetism, and the computation of Coulomb
corrections using a realistic charge distribution consistent with the 71 Ga r.m.s. charge radius – combine to lower σgs by
about 2.5%, while the excited state contribution increases to a bit over ∼6% when the effects of MT are included in the
extraction of BGT from (p,n) cross sections. The net result is a total cross section σ ∼1.5% smaller than that of [49]. For
the νe → νs oscillation bounds we derive later in this paper, the updated cross section of [3] is used.


5.5. Nuclear and Atomic Data Uncertainties

Various atomic and nuclear parameters are needed in the 51 Cr and 37 Ar cross section calculations for 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge,
and as noted at various points above, small changes have occurred in their values, as new measurements became available
over the years. Here we briefly comment on these data uncertainties, emphasizing that they are quite modest and thus
cannot account for the observed discrepancy in R.


Nuclear Q Values: The EC Q-values for 37 Ar, 51 Cr, and 71 Ge and their uncertainties are, from the most recent available




                                                                     26
data evaluation [80],

    QEC (37 Ar) = 813.87 ± 0.20 keV        QEC (51 Cr) = 752.39 ± 0.15 keV       QEC (76 Ge) = 232.47 ± 0.09 keV       (5.11)

The uncertainties range from 0.02% to 0.04%, implying an impact on rates or cross sections of ∼ 0.04% to 0.08%. This
is far below levels of current concern.


The 71 Ge half-life: The 71 Ge half-life used in the BEST, GALLEX/GNO, and SAGE analyses is 11.43 ± 0.03 d. This
value and its 0.3% uncertainty comes from [43]. The neutrino capture cross section depends directly on this value as
described above. A recent paper [81] questioned the reliability of this half-life. Their suggestion of a longer half-life and
much larger uncertainty for the 71 Ge EC half-life was based on four selected measurements, two of which were performed
nearly 70 years ago. One of these older papers drives the conclusions of [81]. The arguments of [81] reflect a misunder-
standing of both [43] and more generally of how nuclear data are evaluated and utilized. The lifetime of [43] represents
not one measurement, but the combined results of six distinct measurements that were performed by the authors using
different source preparation methods and two distinct counting techniques, in contrast to older work that the authors of
[81] weighted equally. (The authors of [43] were of course aware of older efforts, noting the age of these measurements
as motivation for their efforts to modernize the EC measurement.) Perhaps more important, the entire body of data
on this decay – which includes [43] and ten other publications listed in the ENDSF files of the National Nuclear Data
Center – was recently re-evaluated [82]. The evaluation included publications as of January 17, 2023, all of which would
have have been critically assessed. The resulting recommended value is also 11.43 ± 0.03 d [82]. Consequently, the
speculations of [81] are not supported by evaluation of the existing body of data on this decay. This said, new measure-
ments of this important EC half-life would of course be welcome, provided they are of the quality of those reported in [43].


The 51 Cr γ-decay Branching Ratio: The most precise method of determining 51 Cr activity is calorimetry. Calorimetry
requires knowledge of the energy release per decay (κ), excluding the unmeasured neutrino contribution. The value
κ=37.750±0.084 keV/decay [83] is dominated by EC to the first excited state of 51 V, for which the branching fraction is
9.91±0.02%. The associated γ has an energy of 320.0835±0.0004 keV. This contribution accounts for 86% of κ. As noted
by the BEST collaboration [2] and studied in Ref. [16], to first order, if the branching ratio for this decay were incorrect,
the deduced source activity would be incorrect by the same factor. As this branching ratio is known to a precise 0.2%,
this is also not an uncertainty of concern. Furthermore, any change would not affect the 37 Ar result.


The 71 Ge Electron Density at the Nucleus:      The dominant ground-state cross section for 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge is tightly
constrained by the known EC rate of 71 Ge. This connection was exploited by Bahcall [49] and by almost all subsequent
investigators. The newest cross section calculation [3] has now taken into account radiative corrections and nuclear
operator contributions beyond the allowed approximation (dominated by the interference term with weak magnetism).
These corrections do alter the relationship between EC and (νe , e− ), but enter at the level of ≲ 0.5 %. In addition, this
relationship depends on important input from atomic theory, the 1s atomic wave function probability averaged over the
nuclear transition density (see discussion in [3]). This averaging generates the probability |ϕav
                                                                                               1s | that appears in Eq. (5.2).
                                                                                                   2


Uncertainties in |ϕav
                   1s | directly impact the calculated EC rate.
                       2


   In [49] Bahcall cites as private communications three relativistic, self-consistent Hartree-Fock calculations that took
into account the finite extent of the nucleus, the Breit interaction, vacuum polarization, and self-energy corrections,


                                                             27
averaging the resulting wave functions over the nuclear volume to obtain |ϕav
                                                                           i | for K, L, and M capture. The calculations,
                                                                              2


performed by independent groups, agree at the ±0.2% level. We are not aware of any subsequent calculations that are
as complete. While [49] includes references to the atomic methods employed by the three groups, details on the specify
calculations performed for 71 Ge do not appear to be published. This is somewhat unfortunate, given the importance of

  i | in the
|ϕav            Ge EC calculation.
     2       71


   The relationship between the dimensionless numerical quantity given in [49] and the density |ϕav
                                                                                                 1s | is not entirely
                                                                                                     2


obvious: see [3] for discussion. When converted to more conventional units, one finds the result

                                         (ℏc)3 |ϕav
                                                 1s |
                                                     2
                                                         = (7.21 ± 0.03) × 10−4 MeV3
                                                             (Zαme c2 )3
                                                         = R                                                           (5.12)
                                                                  π       Z=32

with R = 1.333. The 0.4% uncertainty (95% C.L.) is determined from the standard deviations of the three atomic
calculations reported in [49] and from differences in theoretical estimates of overlap and the exchange corrections, as
computed by Bahcall and Vatai (see [3]). These two sources of theoretical uncertainty were combined in quadrature. This
procedure accounts for differences apparent from the spread among competing calculations, but not those that could arise
if the calculations being compared employed common but flawed assumptions. But unless some major mistake has been
made in the atomic physics, atomic uncertainties are far below the level of current concern.
   In the second line of Eq. (5.12) the result has been re-expressed in terms of the Schrödinger density for an electron
bound to a point charge Z, evaluated at the origin. The dimensionless proportionality factor R is not too different from
unity.


K, L, and M Capture Ratios: Additional atomic data input uncertainties enter through the experimental K, L, and
M EC probabilities for the 51 Cr and 37 Ar sources, listed in Table 2.1. We see that the absolute branching ratios are
known to a typical accuracy of ∼10−4 . Further, any error in these quantities would simply redistribute strength over an
atomic energy scale, further diluting any impact. Consequently these uncertainties are far below levels of concern.
   The K, L, and M EC probabilities for 71 Ge appear in the theoretical expression for the capture, Eq. (5.2), used in [3]
and in the neutrino analysis presented here. The uncertainties in these quantities, as well as in the exchange and overlap
corrections one needs to relate theoretical instantaneous EC rates to the physical rates observed in 71 Ga, are described in
[3]. This constitutes the dominant uncertainty in extracting BGT (gs) from the EC rate. This uncertainty is propagated
into the cross section calculation and reflected in the 1.5% uncertainty (95% C.L.) assigned to σgs . See [3] for details.



6. The Ga Anomaly and its Possible Implications for Sterile Neutrinos
The preceding two sections summarize the steps taken to cross-check BEST and earlier Ga calibration experiments.
Despite a great deal of effort, no candidate explanation has been found involving either a flaw in experimental procedures
or uncertainties in the theoretical input used in the extraction of the 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge rate. Indeed, the experiments are
unusually free of both neutrino source and detector cross section uncertainties. The sources generate simple line neutrino
spectra, calorimetry and other techniques tightly constrain source intensity, and the known EC rate of 71 Ge establishes
a minimum value for the neutrino capture cross section on 71 Ga.
   It is possible that the Ga anomaly is a statistical fluctuation – though a highly improbable one, if all uncertainties
have been correctly estimated. The published BEST results for the inner and outer volumes [1, 2], using the 1997 Bahcall


                                                              28
neutrino absorption cross section, can be compared with those obtained using the updated cross section of [3],
                                   Rout                                     Rout
                                  expected
                                           = 0.77 ± 0.05                   expected
                                                                                    = 0.78 ± 0.05
                                 Rout                                     Rout
                                                                  ⇒                                                      (6.1)
                                    Rin                                      Rin
                                  expected
                                             = 0.79 ± 0.05                 expected
                                                                                      = 0.80 ± 0.05
                                 Rin                                      Rin

Similarly, for the original Ga anomaly obtained from the weighted average of the four calibration experiments [29]

                           R                                                R
                                              = 0.87 ± 0.05       ⇒                            = 0.88 ± 0.05             (6.2)
                        Rexpected calibration                            Rexpected calibration
When all of these data are combined with appropriate ratings weighting, one finds for the updated cross section
                                                     
                                     R                0.82 ± 0.03 uncorrelated
                                                   =                                                                     (6.3)
                                 Rexpected combined  0.81 ± 0.05 correlated

depending on whether one assumes the uncertainties in the five 51 Cr experiments are uncorrelated or correlated. The
dominant correlated uncertainty is that associated with the cross section. While the original Ga anomaly had a significance
of about 2.2σ, using the updated cross section, with the inclusion of the BEST results that has grown to ∼ 4 σ under
conservative assumptions. These estimates are based on our current best knowledge of all input experimental and
theoretical uncertainties. It cannot be attributed to nuclear physics uncertainties in the capture cross section: Using only
capture to the 71 Ge ground state, one obtains
                                                                      
                                  R       minimum cross section        0.87 ± 0.03    uncorrelated
                                                                  =                                                      (6.4)
                              Rexpected combined                       0.87 ± 0.05    correlated

reducing the significance of the anomaly to approximately 2.6σ under the most conservative assumptions, but not elimi-
nating it.
   The BEST results have been attributed to νe → νs but the absence of any distance dependence, from comparing rates
in the inner and outer volumes, means that there is no direct evidence supporting this hypothesis. The rates observed in
the two volumes were each low and consistent within their 1σ uncertainties.
   But if νe → νs is invoked to account for Ga anomaly, one can check the consistency of this hypothesis with other
experiments. There exist both null results constraining the properties of sterile neutrinos, and other experimental anoma-
lies that have been linked to their existence. For a recent review, see Ref. [4]. As discussed in the introduction to this
paper, this is not an easy task as the number, masses, and couplings of possible sterile neutrinos are among the variables
one should consider. Furthermore, sterile neutrinos can be accompanied by other new physics. As is apparent from Refs.
[4, 5, 6], the modeling possibilities have resulted in an extensive literature, much of it generated in the last few years.
   Figure 6.1 shows the BEST constraints on the simplest (3+1) νe → νs scenario involving a single sterile state, as well
as the constraints when BEST is combined with the SAGE and GALLEX calibration experiments. The updated cross
section of [3] has been used. The parameter space is very flat, particularly along the ∆m2 direction. The contours exclude
the origin and thus are consistent with the assumption that νe → νs is occurring.
   One can then consider whether other results support or are in tension with the hypothesis of νe → νs for the parameters
indicated in Fig. 6.1. BEST’s inner/outer detector geometry corresponds to oscillation lengths corresponding to ∆m2 ∼ 1
eV2 , which one sees reflected in Fig. 6.1. Values much smaller that 1 eV2 , corresponding to longer oscillation lengths,
are excluded by BEST’s reduced counting rate, R ∼ 0.8. For ∆m2 ≳ 2 eV2 , BEST looses sensitivity to ∆m2 , as the
oscillation length is short relative to detector dimensions. Only the average oscillation is relevant. Consequently BEST


                                                                  29
                                                    SAGE+GALLEX+BEST oscillation analysis with 2 new cross se
    BEST oscillation analysis with 2 new cross sections.
    1. Haxton- Krofcheck - s [10 cm / ( Ga atom 2.
                                 -45  2 71
                                                    1.Cr
                                                   51
                                                       Haxton-
                                                       Haxton-         +0.27
                                                                 – 5.71-0.10
                                                                 Krofcheck
                                                         decay)] Frekers         s -45
                                                                           - s -[10     -45 2 71
                                                                                    [10cm    / ( 2/Ga
                                                                                            cm      (71Ga   51 51
                                                                                                          atom
                                                                                                       atom   Cr2.Cr
                                                                                                                   Haxton-
                                                                                                                     decay)]
                                                                                                                  decay)]       5.+-71
                                                                                                                          – 5Freker
                                                                                                                             .–85   0.1
                                                                                                                                     0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              10



     m2 (eV2 )                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               8




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                m2 (eV2 )
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               6



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4
     <latexit sha1_base64="u76Fj/F/XgmLYRG81RFiSEOAlB4=">AAACD3icbZDLSgMxFIYz9VbrrerSTbAoFaTMlKIuK7pwWcFeoFNLJj1tQ5OZIckIZSj4AG58FTcuFHHr1p1vY6atoK0/BH6+c8I55/dCzpS27S8rtbC4tLySXs2srW9sbmW3d2oqiCSFKg14IBseUcCZD1XNNIdGKIEIj0PdG1wk9fodSMUC/0YPQ2gJ0vNZl1GiDWpnD91L4JpgVxDdlyIWo9sido9x/gdAzZCjdjZnF+yx8LxxpiaHpqq0s59uJ6CRAF9TTpRqOnaoWzGRmlEOo4wbKQgJHZAeNI31iQDVisf3jPCBIR3cDaR5vsZj+vtHTIRSQ+GZzmRLNVtL4H+1ZqS7Z62Y+WGkwaeTQd2IYx3gJBzcYRKo5kNjCJXM7Ippn0hCtYkwY0JwZk+eN7ViwTkplK5LufL5/SSONNpD+yiPHHSKyugKVVAVUfSAntALerUerWfrzXqftKasaYS76I+sj2+kv5ww</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                <latexit sha1_base64="u76Fj/F/XgmLYRG81RFiSEOAlB4=">AAACD3icbZDLSgMxFIYz9VbrrerSTbAoFaTMlKIuK7pwWcFeoFNLJj1tQ5OZIckIZSj4AG58FTcuFHHr1p1vY6atoK0/BH6+c8I55/dCzpS27S8rtbC4tLySXs2srW9sbmW3d2oqiCSFKg14IBseUcCZD1XNNIdGKIEIj0PdG1wk9fodSMUC/0YPQ2gJ0vNZl1GiDWpnD91L4JpgVxDdlyIWo9sido9x/gdAzZCjdjZnF+yx8LxxpiaHpqq0s59uJ6CRAF9TTpRqOnaoWzGRmlEOo4wbKQgJHZAeNI31iQDVisf3jPCBIR3cDaR5vsZj+vtHTIRSQ+GZzmRLNVtL4H+1ZqS7Z62Y+WGkwaeTQd2IYx3gJBzcYRKo5kNjCJXM7Ippn0hCtYkwY0JwZk+eN7ViwTkplK5LufL5/SSONNpD+yiPHHSKyugKVVAVUfSAntALerUerWfrzXqftKasaYS76I+sj2+kv5ww</latexit>
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SAGE/GALLEX/BEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      BEST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          2                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Krofcheck et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Krofcheck et et
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Frekers al.al.



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           0.0   0.2   0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6       0.8                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1.0 0.0   0.2     0.4                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.6         0.8          1.0 0.0    0.2
                                sin2 2✓                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     sin2 2✓
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         <latexit sha1_base64="CVn0nR4LyVoj9SztHbA59ZQShQg=">AAAB+XicbZBLSwMxFIXv+Kz1NerSTbAIrspMKeqy4sZlBfuAdiyZNG1DM5khuVMoQ8Ef4saFIm79J+78N6aPhbYeCHycc0NuTphIYdDzvp219Y3Nre3cTn53b//g0D06rps41YzXWCxj3Qyp4VIoXkOBkjcTzWkUSt4Ih7fTvDHi2ohYPeA44UFE+0r0BKNorY7rto1Qj6WsRNo44EgnHbfgFb2ZyCr4CyjAQtWO+9XuxiyNuEImqTEt30swyKhGwSSf5Nup4QllQ9rnLYuKRtwE2WzzCTm3Tpf0Ym2PQjJzf9/IaGTMOArtZERxYJazqflf1kqxdx1kQiUpcsXmD/VSSTAm0xpIV2jOUI4tUKaF3ZWwAdWUoS0rb0vwl7+8CvVS0b8slu/LhcrN07yOHJzCGVyAD1dQgTuoQg0YjOAZXuHNyZwX5935mI+uOYsKT+CPnM8fKeiTxQ==</latexit>




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        <latexit sha1_base64="CVn0nR4LyVoj9SztHbA59ZQShQg=">AAAB+XicbZBLSwMxFIXv+Kz1NerSTbAIrspMKeqy4sZlBfuAdiyZNG1DM5khuVMoQ8Ef4saFIm79J+78N6aPhbYeCHycc0NuTphIYdDzvp219Y3Nre3cTn53b//g0D06rps41YzXWCxj3Qyp4VIoXkOBkjcTzWkUSt4Ih7fTvDHi2ohYPeA44UFE+0r0BKNorY7rto1Qj6WsRNo44EgnHbfgFb2ZyCr4CyjAQtWO+9XuxiyNuEImqTEt30swyKhGwSSf5Nup4QllQ9rnLYuKRtwE2WzzCTm3Tpf0Ym2PQjJzf9/IaGTMOArtZERxYJazqflf1kqxdx1kQiUpcsXmD/VSSTAm0xpIV2jOUI4tUKaF3ZWwAdWUoS0rb0vwl7+8CvVS0b8slu/LhcrN07yOHJzCGVyAD1dQgTuoQg0YjOAZXuHNyZwX5935mI+uOYsKT+CPnM8fKeiTxQ==</latexit>                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    <latexit sha1_base64="CVn0nR4LyVoj9SztHbA59ZQShQg=">AAAB+XicbZBLSwMxFIXv+Kz1NerSTbAIrspMKeqy4sZlBfuAdiyZNG1DM5khuVMoQ8Ef4saFIm79J+78N6aPhbYeCHycc0NuTphIYdDzvp219Y3Nre3cTn53b//g0D06rps41YzXWCxj3Qyp4VIoXkOBkjcTzWkUSt4Ih7fTvDHi2ohYPeA44UFE+0r0BKNorY7rto1Qj6WsRNo44EgnHbfgFb2ZyCr4CyjAQtWO+9XuxiyNuEImqTEt30swyKhGwSSf5Nup4QllQ9rnLYuKRtwE2WzzCTm3Tpf0Ym2PQjJzf9/IaGTMOArtZERxYJazqflf1kqxdx1kQiUpcsXmD/VSSTAm0xpIV2jOUI4tUKaF3ZWwAdWUoS0rb0vwl7+8CvVS0b8slu/LhcrN07yOHJzCGVyAD1dQgTuoQg0YjOAZXuHNyZwX5935mI+uOYsKT+CPnM8fKeiTxQ==</latexit>




    The best-fit point is sin2 2θ=0.41, Δm2 = 6.1.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            The best-fit
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              The best-fit point
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           point is sin22 2θ=0.45,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 is sin   2θ=0.32, Δm22 = 6.5.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1.25.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                The best-fit point i
Figure 6.1: Left: The allowed region for oscillations into a sterile state determined from the BEST inner and outer results, using the update
                                                               512 2θ = 0.41, ∆m2 = 6.1+0eV
                                                                                  .85 .19, denoted
                                                                     2. Haxton-5Frekers
                                                                                            2
                                                                                              - s [10above
                                                                                                     -45    2 b.f.p.
                                                                                                             / (71GaRight: 51     regions – 5.85 +0.1
    2. Haxton- Frekers - s [10
neutrino capture cross section from [3]. -45   2 71 point is sin
                                          The best-fit                                                   cmby        atom Allowed
                                                                                                                              Cr decay)]                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 cm / ( Ga atom Cr decay)] –                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -0.13                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -0.1
when the constraints from the two GALLEX and two SAGE calibration experiments are added. The best-fit point is sin2 2θ = 0.32, ∆m2 = 1.25
eV2 . The parameter space, however, is very flat. Figure courtesy of Tanya Ibragimova.


results are compatible with a wide range of relatively heavy sterile neutrinos. In contrast, because R is significantly less
than 1, a relatively large mixing angle is indicated. This creates tension with other experimental constraints on sterile
neutrinos.
    A number of other experiments have produced results impacting the sterile neutrino interpretations of the Ga anomaly:
DANSS [84], Prospect [85], Stéréo [86], RENO & NEOS [87, 88] and KATRIN [89] all quote limits and provide exclu-
sion regions. As a collective they exclude most, but not all, of the BEST allowed space. The reactor anti-neutrino
anomaly (RAA) [90], and the reactor experiment, Neutrino-4 [91], claim evidence for νe → νs . The allowed regions
for Neutrino-4 and BEST overlap. The allowed regions for RAA and BEST overlap near sin2 2θ ∼0.2, but marginally.
Similarly, limits from solar neutrinos [92] exclude almost all of the BEST allowed region, except for the lowest allowed
mixing angles. The joint MiniBooNE–MicroBooNE results [93] yield an allowed region
                                                                              2    that overlaps
                                                                                              2 poorly with the Ga
                           2            2
    The best-fit point is sin 2θ=0.45, Δm = 6.5.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               The best-fit point is sin 2θ=0.34, Δm = 1.25.
results. Although the MicroBooNE results are limited by low statistics and hence do not significantly alter the Mini-
BooNE exclusion region, taken by themselves they are consistent with the Ga data [94]. Readers can find in Ref. [4]
various exclusion plots summarizing existing constraints on the 3+1 sterile neutrino scenario.
    On balance no clear evidence has emerged from these experiments that supports the simplest new-physics hypothesis
of νe → νs to a fourth sterile neutrino state as an explanation for the BEST results. Of course, this does not exclude
more complicated scenarios with additional beyond-the-Standard-Model degrees of freedom. On the other hand, as we
have described in this review, the many cross-checks of the experimental procedures have been made, yielding no evidence
of significant issues in either the BEST experiment or the four earlier Ga calibration efforts. Nor is there any identified
theory uncertainty that could possibly account for a ∼20% reduction in the counting rate. Thus at this time we lack an
explanation for the results that have been obtained.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     30
7. Summary and Outlook
The BEST experiment was designed as a test of the Ga anomaly that would achieve a higher counting rate, by using a
51
     Cr source of unprecedented intensity to expose a large mass of Ga metal to the neutrino flux. The two-volume design
provided sensitivity to oscillation lengths provided ∆m2 ∼ 1 eV2 . No baseline dependence was observed. In both volumes
a counting rate was obtained that was ∼80% of that expected, a result consistent with the earlier calibration experiments
while also strengthening the statistical signifance the Ga anomaly.
      In this review we described the experimental procedures of BEST and the earlier calibration experiments, emphasizing
the detailed checks that have been made to verify Ge extraction, proportional counter efficiency, and analysis procedures.
We discussed the atomic physics of the sources and the multiple checks that have been made of source intensity. We
described the nuclear physics of the 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge cross section, which is tightly constrained by the known EC rate
for 71 Ge, including recent work that has provided a solid basis for estimating the uncertainty of the remaining ∼6%
contribution from 71 Ge excited states. Two effects that can alter the relationship between 71 Ge EC and neutrino capture
on 71 Ga, radiative corrections and weak magnetism, have been evaluated and found to enter at the level of ≲0.5%.
No conventional explanation of the anomaly has been identified, apart from the possibility of an unfortunate statistical
fluctuation. While it is clearly not possible to rule out some undiscovered experimental artifact altering either observed
rates or current estimates of uncertainties, there is a marked contrast between the various efficiency tests performed,
which typically verified procedures at the level of 1%, and the ∼20% counting deficit found in the BEST experiment.
      The lack of more conventional explanations for the anomaly has led to suggestions that new physics might be at
play, specifically an oscillation into a fourth sterile neutrino νe → νs . The BEST and SAGE/GALLEX calibration
results are consistent with such an explanation for a broad range of ∆m2 ≳ 1 eV2 and large mixing angles in the range
sin2 2θ ∼ 0.3 − 0.4. While sterile neutrinos have been invoked to account for other anomalies, in general the oscillation
parameters indicated by BEST lead to conflicts with various short-baseline null experiments. While the 3+1 scenario
explored is simple and many other possibilities exist, in our view one would need additional supporting evidence before
claiming νe → νs as a likely solution to the Ga anomaly.
      The most productive path forward might be to perform another high-intensity source experiment, improving the
precision and helping to further rule out the possibility that the Ga anomaly is totally or partially a statistical fluctuation.
Given the success in producing one high-intensity 51 Cr source (3.14 MCi), one has confidence that a second could be
fabricated.
      But there are alternatives, including one experiment that would be sensitive to somewhat shorter oscillation lengths,
corresponding to higher neutrino mass differences. Probing shorter oscillation lengths by making the inner volume of
the BEST configuration smaller would be impractical, but developing a higher-energy neutrino source is an intriguing
alternative. 65 Zn is an EC isotope with a small β + decay branch (1.421%). Roughly half the electron captures are to an
excited state at 1115.5 keV with the remainder to the ground state with a Q-value of 1352.1 keV. This results in K-capture
νe s of energies 1342.4 keV and 226.9 keV, the latter below the 71 Ga threshold. Therefore 48.35±0.11% of 65 Zn decays
produce νe that can interact. The longer half-life of 65 Zn (244.01±0.09 d [42]) means that many more extractions can be
done, compared to the 51 Cr and 37 Ar source experiments previously performed [95]. Furthermore, the 65 Zn cross section
is about three times larger. Even though only 48% of the decays produce useful νe , the count rates would be higher. A
first assessment of source fabrication indicates that with 6-7 kg of enriched 64 Zn, a 0.5 MCi source could be produced.
      However, 65 Zn neutrinos can populate higher energy excited states in 71 Ge at 708 keV, 808 keV and 1096 keV in


                                                              31
addition to the states at 175 and 500 keV that contributed to the 51 Cr source experiment. An estimate of the 65 Zn cross
section for 71 Ga(νe ,e− )71 Ge of (1.82±0.05) × 10−44 cm2 [75] has been made, based on excited-state BGT values extracted
from forward-angle (3 He,t) scattering. Some 20-30% of the cross section is due to such states [75]. This is problematic, as
the model-dependent contribution to the 65 Zn 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge cross section would exceed the size of the anomaly one
is testing. In contrast to the (p,n) analysis of [3], no systematic effective operator study of (3 He,t) as a probe of weak
Gamow-Teller strengths has been made. Thus it is not presently clear whether a 65 Zn neutrino source experiment could
achieve the precision required, even though certain experimental attributes of this source are attractive.
      Huber [96] proposed using the Ce-doped, inorganic scintillating crystal Gd3 Al2 Ga3 O12 (Ce:GAGG) to test the anomaly
by exposing a 1.5-ton detector of crystals to a BEST-like 51 Cr source ten times. The charged-current (CC) interaction
rate on 71 Ga and the elastic scattering (ES) rate on the electrons within the crystal would both be measured. The ES
cross section is well known and therefore the comparison of the two rates is a direct test of the CC cross section. With few
previous measurements of CC cross sections in this energy range, this would be a useful measurement even without the
motivation of the Ga anomaly. The absolute activity of the 51 Cr source would cancel out in forming the ratio of the two
rates. There are clearly advantages to event-by-event detection, compared to the less direct radiochemical method that
requires extraction and counting of event products. The CC signature would be an energy deposit of 510 keV (Eν − Q),
a number unfortunately near the positron annihilation γ energy. The continuum of ES events extends up to the Q value.
A careful background study will be required before the feasibility of this scheme will be known. Ten reproductions of the
51
     Cr source would also pose a challenge.
      Another possibility would be to place a strong ν̄e source near a liquid scintillator detector with position sensitivity and
large proton density [97]. The SOX collaboration [98] had planned to place a ∼500 PBq 144 Ce-source near the Borexino
detector. The ν̄e spectrum from this β decay extends up to 3.0 MeV, well above the 1.806 MeV inverse beta decay (IBD)
threshold of hydrogen. The sensitivity of Borexino to IBD and its position sensitivity meant that an oscillation curve
could be mapped out. Unfortunately the fabrication of the source failed [99], causing the experiment to be abandoned.
      The line neutrinos produced in EC combined with calorimetry and other methods to measure source intensities to
high precision help to make the source experiments described above quite attractive. Furthermore the cross sections for
the reactions they induce are often more constrained than would be the case for higher energy neutrinos. In the example
we have treated here, 94% the 51 Cr neutrino cross section for 71 Ga(νe , e− )71 Ge can be determined from the 71 Ge EC rate,
independent of nuclear models. Thus the further development of this field is important, given our incomplete knowledge
of neutrino physics and the need for high precision tests of neutrino properties.



Acknowledgements
We thank Hamish Robertson for helpful discussions. This work was supported by the Department of Energy, Office of
Nuclear Physics under Federal Prime Agreement LANLEM78 (SRE); by the Higher Education of Russian Federation under
agreement no. 14.619.21.0009 (unique project identifier no. RFMEFI61917X0009) (VG); and by the US Department of
Energy under grants DE-SC0004658, DE-SC0015376, and DE-AC02-05CH11231, the National Science Foundation under
cooperative agreement 2020275, and the Heising-Simons Foundation under award 00F1C7 (WH).




                                                                32
References
 [1] V. V. Barinov et al., Results from the Baksan Experiment on Sterile Transitions (BEST), Phys. Rev. Lett. 128 (2022)
    232501.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.128.232501.

 [2] V. V. Barinov et al., Search for electron-neutrino transitions to sterile states in the BEST experiment, Phys. Rev. C
    105 (2022) 065502.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.105.065502.

 [3] W. C. Haxton, E. J. Rule, S. R. Elliott, V. N. Gavrin, T. V. Ibragimova, The gallium neutrino absorption cross
    section and its uncertainty, submitted to Phys. Rev. C (2023).
    http://dx.doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2303.13623.

 [4] M. A. Acero et al., White paper on light sterile neutrino searches and related phenomenology, arXiv.2203.07323
    (2022).
    http://dx.doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2203.07323.

 [5] R. Adhikari et al., A white paper on kev sterile neutrino dark matter, arXiv.1602.04816 (2016).
    http://dx.doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1602.04816.

 [6] K. N. Abazajian et al., Light sterile neutrinos: A white paper, arXiv.1204.5379 (2012).
    https://dx.doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.1204.5379.

 [7] I. Y. Kobzarev, B. V. Martemyanov, L. B. Oken, M. G. Shchepkin, Phenomenology of neutrino oscillations, Sov. J.
    Nucl. Phys. 32 (1980) 823.

 [8] H. Nunokawa, S. Parke, J. W. Valle, CP violation and neutrino oscillations, Prog. Part. Nucl. Phys. 60 (2008) 338-
    402.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ppnp.2007.10.001.

 [9] V. Barger, S. Pakvasa, T. J. Weiler, K. Whisnant, CPT-odd resonances in neutrino oscillations, Phys. Rev. Lett. 85
    (2000) 5055–5058.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/physrevlett.85.5055.

[10] Y. Farzan, M. Tòrtola, Neutrino oscillations and non-standard interactions, Front. Phys. 6 (2018) 1.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fphy.2018.00010.

[11] M. Lindner, T. Ohlsson, W. Winter, A combined treatment of neutrino decay and neutrino oscillations, Nucl. Phys.
    B 607 (2001) 326–354.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0550-3213(01)00237-1

[12] V. A. Kostelecký, M. Mewes, Lorentz and CPT violation in neutrinos, Phys. Rev. D 69 (2004) 016005.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.69.016005

[13] R. Barbieri, P. Creminelli, A. Strumia, Neutrino oscillations and large extra dimensions, Nucl. Phys. B 585 (2000)
    28–44.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0550-3213(00)00348-5.


                                                           33
[14] K. S. Babu, V. Brdar, A. de Gouvea, P. A. N. Machado, Addressing the short-baseline neutrino anomalies with
    energy-dependent mixing parameters, Phys. Rev. D 107 (2023) 015017.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.107.015017.

[15] G. Alonso-Álvarez, J. M. Cline, Sterile neutrino dark matter catalyzed by a very light dark photon, JCAP 10 (2021)
    041.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1475-7516/2021/10/041.

[16] Vedran Brdar, Julia Gehrlein and Joachim Kopp, Towards Resolving the Gallium Anomaly, JHEP 05 (2023) 143.
    https://doi.org/10.1007%2Fjhep05%282023%29143.

[17] P. A. N. Machado, H. Nunokawa, F. A. Pereira dos Santos, R. Zukanovich Funchal, Bulk neutrinos as an alternative
    cause of the gallium and reactor anti-neutrino anomalies, Phys. Rev. D 85 (2012) 073012.
    https://doi.org/10.1103%2Fphysrevd.85.073012.

[18] B. T. Cleveland et al., Measurement of the solar electron neutrino flux with the homestake chlorine detector, Ap. J.
    496 (1998) 505.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1086/305343.

[19] B. M. Pontecorvo, Inverse β process, Chalk River Report PD-205 (1946).

[20] L. W. Alvarez, Lawrence Radiation Laboratory Physics Notes, Memo #767 (1949).

[21] E. Magg et al., Observational constraints on the origin of the elements. IV. Standard composition of the Sun, A&A
    661 (2022) A140.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1051/0004-6361/202142971.

[22] A. M. Serenelli, W. C. Haxton, C. Pena-Garay, Solar models with accretion: I. Application to the solar abundance
    problem, Ap. J. 743 (2011) 24.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/0004-637X/743/1/24.

[23] J. Sackman, A. I. Boothroyd, W. A. Fowler, Our Sun. I. The standard model: Successes and failures, Ap. J. 360
    (1990) 727.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1086/169158.

[24] S. Turck-Chièze, I. Lopes, Toward a unified classical model of the Sun: On the sensitivity of neutrinos and helioseis-
    mology to the microscopic physics, Ap. J. 408 (1993) 347.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1086/172592.

[25] J. N. Bahcall, M. H. Pinsonneault, G. J. Wasserburg, Solar models with helium and heavy-element diffusion, Rev.
    Mod. Phys. 67 (1995) 781-808.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/RevModPhys.67.781.

[26] J. N. Bahcall, J. R. Davis, An account of the development of the solar neutrino problem, in: Essays in Nuclear
    Astrophysics, ed. C. A. Barnes, D. D. Clayton, and D. Schramm, Cambridge University Press, 1982, pp. 243–265.

[27] Y. Fukuda et al., Solar Neutrino Data Covering Solar Cycle 22, Phys. Rev. Lett. 77 (1996) 1683.
    https://dx.doi.org/doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.77.1683.


                                                            34
[28] V. A. Kuzmin, Detection of solar neutrinos by means of the 71 Ga(νe ,e− )71 Ge reaction, Zh. Eksp. Teor. Fiz. 49 (1965)
    1532, Sov. Phys. JETP, 22 (1966) 1051.

[29] J. N. Abdurashitov et al., Measurement of the solar neutrino capture rate with gallium metal. iii. Results for the
    2002–2007 data-taking period, Phys. Rev. C 80 (2009) 015807.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.80.015807.

[30] M. Altmann et al., Complete results for five years of GNO solar neutrino observations, Phys. Lett. B 616 (2005)
    174–190.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2005.04.068.

[31] K. Abe et al., Solar neutrino measurements in Super-Kamiokande-IV, Phys. Rev. D 94 (2016) 052010.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.94.052010.

[32] B. Aharmim et al., Combined analysis of all three phases of solar neutrino data from the Sudbury Neutrino Obser-
    vatory, Phys. Rev. C 88 (2013) 025501.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.88.025501.

[33] M. Nakahata, History of solar neutrino observations, Prog. Theor. Exper. Phys. 2022 (2022).
    https://doi.org/10.1093/ptep/ptac039

[34] G. D. Orebi Gann, K. Zuber, D. Bemmerer, A. Serenelli, The future of solar neutrinos, Annu. Rev. Nucl. Part. Sci.
    77 (2021) 491.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev-nucl-011921-061243.

[35] W. C. Haxton, R. G. H. Robertson, A. M. Serenelli, Solar neutrinos: Status and prospects, Annu. Rev. Astron.
    Astrophys. 51 (2013) 2013.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev-astro-081811-125539.

[36] C. Athanassopoulos et al., Evidence for ν̄µ → ν̄e oscillations from the LSND experiment at the Los Alamos Meson
    Physics Facility, Phys. Rev. Letts. 77 (1996) 3082.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.77.3082.

[37] A. Aguilar et al. (LSND Collaboration), Evidence for neutrino oscillations from the observation of ν̄e appearance in
    a ν̄µ beam, Phys. Rev. D 64 (2001) 112007.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.64.112007

[38] N. Hata, W. C. Haxton, Implications of the GALLEX source experiment for the solar neutrino problem, Phys. Lett.
    B 353 (1995) 422.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0370-2693(95)00598-F

[39] W. C. Haxton, Cross section uncertainties in the gallium neutrino source experiments, Phys. Lett. B 431 (1998)
    110-118.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0370-2693(98)00581-4

[40] M.-M. Bé, V. Chisté, C. Dulieu, X. Mougeot, V. Chechev, F. Kondev, A. Nichols, X. Huang, B. Wang, Table of
    Radionuclides, Vol. 7 of Monographie BIPM-5, Bureau International des Poids et Mesures, Pavillon de Breteuil,


                                                            35
    F-92310 Sèvres, France, 2013.
    http://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/monographieRI/Monographie_BIPM-5_Tables_Vol7.pdf.

[41] M.-M. Bé, V. Chisté, C. Dulieu, E. Browne, V. Chechev, N. Kuzmenko, R. Helmer, A. Nichols, E. Schönfeld,
    R. Dersch, Table of Radionuclides, Vol. 1 of Monographie BIPM-5, Bureau International des Poids et Mesures,
    Pavillon de Breteuil, F-92310 Sèvres, France, 2004.
    http://www.bipm.org/utils/common/pdf/monographieRI/Monographie_BIPM-5_Tables_Vol1.pdf.

[42] M.-M. Bé, B. Duchemin, J. Lamé, C. Morillon, F. Piton, E. Browne, V. Chechev, R. Helmer, E. Schönfeld, Table de
    Radionucléides, Vol. 1, Commissariat à l’Énergie Atomique, DAMRI/LPRI BP 52, F-91193 Gif-sur-Yvette Cedex,
    France, 1999.

[43] W. Hampel, L. P. Remsberg, Half-life of 71 Ge, Phys. Rev. C 31 (1985) 666–667.
    http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.31.666.

[44] H. Genze, J. P. Renier, J. G. Pengra, R. W. Fink, Multiwire-proportional-counter measurement of the M/L orbital-
    electron-capture ratio in decay, Phys. Rev. C 3 (1971) 172.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.3.172.

[45] W. Neumann, in Proceedings of the International Conference on X-ray and Atomic Inner Shell Physics, Eugene,
    Oregon (unpublished) (1982).

[46] J. N. Abdurashitov et al., Measurement of the response of a Ga solar neutrino experiment to neutrinos from a 37 Ar
    source, Phys. Rev. C 73 (2006) 045805.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.73.045805.

[47] P. Anselmann et al., Solar neutrinos observed by GALLEX at Gran Sasso, Phys. Lett. B 285 (1992) 376.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0370-2693(92)91521-A.

[48] F. Kaether, W. Hampel, G. Heusser, J. Kiko, T. Kirsten, Reanalysis of the GALLEX solar neutrino flux and source
    experiments, Phys. Lett. B 685 (2010) 47–54.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2010.01.030.

[49] J. N. Bahcall, Gallium solar neutrino experiments: Absorption cross sections, neutrino spectra, and predicted event
    rates, Phys. Rev. C 56 (1997) 3391–3409.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.56.3391.

[50] M. Altmann, F. Feilitzsch, U. Schanda, A parameterized pulse shape analysis method for the GALLEX solar neutrino
    experiment, Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A. 381 (1996) 398–412.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0168-9002(96)00738-3.

[51] M. Cribier, et al., Study of a high intensity 746 keV neutrino source for the calibration of solar neutrino detectors,
    Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 265 (1988) 574-586.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/s0168-9002(98)90030-4.




                                                            36
[52] A. Tikhomirov, Modern tendencies in the enrichment of stable isotopes and their applications in the USSR and
    elsewhere, Nucl. Instrum. Meth. B. 70 (1) (1992) 1–4.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0168-583X(92)95897-Z.

[53] G. Popov, V. Prusakov, A. Rudnev, A. Tikhomirov, A. Voronin, Centrifugal enrichment of chromium-50 for experi-
    ments on detecting solar neutrinos, Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 362 (1995) 532–537.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0168-9002(95)00301-0.

[54] J. N. Abdurashitov et al., Measurement of the response of a gallium metal solar neutrino experiment to neutrinos
    from a 51 Cr source, Phys. Rev. C 59 (1999) 2246–2263.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.59.2246.

[55] M. Cribier, et al., Production of a 62 pBq 51 Cr low energy neutrino source for GALLEX, Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A
    378 (1996) 233.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0168-9002(96)00464-0.

[56] I. N. Belousov et al., in: Proceedings of the International School on Particles and Cosmology, Baksan Valley, Russia,
    World Scientific, Singapore, 1991, p. 59.

[57] W. Hampel et al., Final results of the 51 Cr neutrino source experiments in GALLEX, Physics Letters B 420 (1)
    (1998) 114–126.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0370-2693(97)01562-1.

[58] J. Kozlova, E. Veretenkin, V. Gavrin, A. Zvir, T. Ibragimova, V. Tarasov, Measurement of activity of an artificial
    neutrino source in the BEST experiment by the calorimetric method, Phys. At. Nucl. 83 (2020) 958–961.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1134/S1063778820060204.

[59] V. Gavrin, T. Ibragimova, J. Kozlova, V. Tarasov, E. Veretenkin, A. Zvir, Measurement of neutrino source activity
    in the experiment BEST by calorimetric method, JINST 16 (04) (2021) P04012.
    http://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1748-0221/16/04/P04012.

[60] J. N. Abdurashitov et al., Measurement of the solar neutrino capture rate with gallium metal, Phys. Rev. C 60 (1999)
    055801.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.60.055801.

[61] Heraeus Holding
    https://www.heraeus.com.

[62] S. R. Elliott, An analytical expression for the extended pulse shape in a proportional counter, Nucl. Instr. Meth. A
    290 (1990) 158–166 and erratum Nucl. Instr. Meth. A 297 (1990) 536.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0168-9002(90)90356-B.

[63] B. T. Cleveland, The analysis of radioactive decay with a small number of counts by the method of maximum
    likelihood, Nucl. Instrum. Meth. 214 (1983) 451-458.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0167-5087(83)90616-6.



                                                            37
[64] B. T. Cleveland, The goodness of fit of radioactive counting data with application to the data of the chlorine solar
     neutrino experiment, Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A 416 (1998) 405-414.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0168-9002(98)00687-1.

[65] W. Hampel et al., Verification tests of the GALLEX solar neutrino detector, with 71 Ge produced in-situ from the
     beta-decay of 71 As, Phys. Lett. B 436 (1) (1998) 158–173.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0370-2693(98)00875-2.

[66] M. Agostini et al., Comprehensive measurement of pp-chain solar neutrinos, Nature 562 (2018) 505–510.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1038/s41586-018-0624-y.

[67] J. N. Abdurashitov, A. O. Gusev, V. E. Yantz, On the 71 Ge counting efficiency with 69 Ge, in: Proceedings of the
     International School on Particles and Cosmology, World Scientific, Singapore, 1995, p. 70.

[68] W. Hampel et al., Results of ultra-low-level Ge-71 counting for application in the GALLEX-solar neutrino experiment
     at the Gan Sasso underground physics laboratory, in: Proc. 19th Intern. Cosmic Ray Conf. (La Jolla, CA), Vol. 5,
     1985, p. 422.

[69] R. Plaga, T. Kirsten, Reduction of degraded events in miniaturized proportional counters, Nucl. Instrum. Meth. A
     309 (1991) 560.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0168-9002(91)90263-P.

[70] P. Anselmann et al., First results from the 51 Cr neutrino source experiment with the GALLEX detector, Phys. Lett.
     B 342 (1995) 440-450.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0370-2693(94)01586-2.

[71] A. Kurylov, M. J. Ramsey-Musolf, and P. Vogel, Radiative corrections to low-energy neutrino reactions, Phys. Rev.
     C 67 (2003) 035502.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.67.035502.

[72] D. Krofcheck et al., Gamow-Teller strength function in 71 Ge via the (p,n) reaction at medium energies, Phys. Rev.
     Lett. 55 (1985) 1051.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.55.1051.

[73] J. W. Watson et al., Relationship between Gamow-Teller transition probabilities and (p,n) cross sections at small
     momentum transfers, Phys,. Rev. Lett. 55 (1985) 1369
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.55.1369

[74] D. Frekers et al., Precision evaluation of the 71 Ga(νe , e− ) solar neutrino capture rate from the (3 He, t) charge-exchange
     reaction, Phys. Rev. C 91 (2015) 034608.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevC.91.034608.

[75] V. Barinov, B. Cleveland, V. Gavrin, D. Gorbunov, T. Ibragimova, Revised neutrino-gallium cross section and
     prospects of BEST in resolving the gallium anomaly, Phys. Rev. D 97 (2018) 073001.
     https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.97.073001.



                                                               38
[76] D. Frekers et al., Penning trap Q-value determination of the 71 Ga(ν, e− )71 Ge reaction using threshold charge breeding
    on on-line produced isotopes, Phys. Lett. B 722 (2013) 233.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2013.04.019.

[77] M. Alanssari et al., Precision 71 Ga-71 Ge mass-difference measurement, Int. J. Mass Spectrom. 406 (2016) 1.
    https://dx.doi.org/0.1016/j.ijms.2016.05.019.

[78] J. Kostensalo, J. Suhonen, C. Giunti, P. Srivastava, The gallium anomaly revisited, Phys. Lett. B 795 (2019) 542–547.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2019.06.057.

[79] S. Semenov, Cross section of neutrino absorption by the gallium-71 nucleus, Phys. At. Nucl. 83 (2020) 1549–1552.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1134/S1063778820100221.

[80] NuDat 3.0, National Nuclear Data Center
    https://www.nndc.bnl.gov/nudat3/.

[81] C. Giunti, Y. F. Li and C. A. Ternes and Z. Xin, Inspection of the detection cross section dependence of the Gallium
    Anomaly, arXiv:2212.09722 (2023).
    https://arxiv.org/abs/2212.09722.

[82] B. Singh and J. Chen, Nucl. Data Sheets 188 (2023) 1.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.nds.2023.02.001.

[83] E. P. Veretenkin, V. N. Gavrin, S. N. Danshin, T. V. Ibragimova, A. A. Kalashnikova, J. P. Kozlova, A. A. Martynov,
    Calorimetric system for high-precision determination of activity of the 51 Cr neutrino source in the BEST experiment,
    J. of Phys.: Conf. Ser. 798 (2017) 012140.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/798/1/012140.

[84] M. Danilov, N. Skrobova, New results from the DANSS experiment, arXiv:2112.13413 (2021).
    http://dx.doi.org/10.48550/arxiv.2112.13413

[85] M. Andriamirado et al., Improved short-baseline neutrino oscillation search and energy spectrum measurement with
    the PROSPECT experiment at HFIR, Phys. Rev. D 103 (2021) 032001.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.103.032001.

[86] H. Almazán et al., Improved sterile neutrino constraints from the STEREO experiment with 179 days of reactor-on
    data, Phys. Rev. D 102 (2020) 052002.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.102.052002.

[87] Z. Atif et al., Search for sterile neutrino oscillation using RENO and NEOS data, Phys. Rev. D 105 (2022) L111101.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.105.L111101.

[88] J. H. Choi et al., Search for sub-ev sterile neutrinos at RENO, Phys. Rev. Lett. 125 (2020) 191801.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.125.191801.

[89] M. Aker et al., Improved eV-scale sterile-neutrino constraints from the second KATRIN measurement campaign,
    Phys. Rev. D 105 (2022) 072004.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/physrevd.105.072004.


                                                             39
[90] G. Mention, M. Fechner, T. Lasserre, T. A. Mueller, D. Lhuillier, M. Cribier, A. Letourneau, Reactor antineutrino
    anomaly, Phys. Rev. D 83 (2011) 073006.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.83.073006.

[91] A. P. Serebrov et al., Search for sterile neutrinos with the Neutrino-4 experiment and measurement results, Phys.
    Rev. D 104 (2021) 032003.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevD.104.032003.

[92] C. Giunti, Y. Li, C. Ternes, Y. Zhang, Neutrino-4 anomaly: Oscillations or fluctuations?, Phys. Lett. B 816 (2021)
    136214.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.physletb.2021.136214.

[93] Aguilar-Arevalo et al., MiniBooNE and MicroBooNE Joint Fit to a 3+1 Sterile Neutrino Scenario, Phys. Rev. Lett.
    129 (2022) 201801.
    https://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevLett.129.201801.

[94] P. B. Denton, Sterile neutrino search with MicroBooNE’s electron neutrino disappearance data, Phys. Rev. Lett. 129
    (2022) 061801.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/physrevlett.129.061801.

[95] V. V. Gorbachev et al., Experiment BEST-2 with a source of 65 Zn on gallium target for the search of neutrino
    oscillations on a short baseline, J. Phys. Conf. Ser. 1390 (2019) 012053.
    https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1742-6596/1390/1/012053

[96] P. Huber, Testing the gallium anomaly, Phys. Rev. D 107 (2023) 096011.
    https://doi.org/10.1103%2Fphysrevd.107.096011.

[97] T. Lasserre, Testing the Reactor and Gallium Anomalies with Intense (Anti)Neutrino Emitters, Nucl. Phys. B, Proc.
    Supp. 235 (2013) 214.
    https://doi.org/10.1016%2Fj.nuclphysbps.2013.04.013

[98] J. Gaffiot et al., Experimental parameters for a Cerium 144 based intense electron antineutrino generator experiment
    at very short baselines, Phys. Rev. D 91 (2015) 072005.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1103/physrevd.91.072005.

[99] E. Cartlidge, Isotope cloud linked to failed neutrino source, Science 359 (2018) 729.
    https://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.359.6377.729.




                                                            40
